
title	year	journal	issn	volume	issue	pages	authors	language	abstract	doi	keywords	orig_abstract	orig_index	T2_H2	T2_Spec	T2_H3	T2_H4	T2_H5	T2_H7	T3_H3	T3_H2	T3_Spec	T3_H4	T3_H5	T3_H6	T4_H5	T4_H4	T4_H6	T5_Spec	T5_H6	T5_H7	T2_H9	Tx_H9
"Strategic self-regulation, decision-making and emotion processing in poly-substance abusers in their first year of abstinence."	2007	Drug and Alcohol Dependence	0376-8716	86	3-Feb	139-146	"Verdejo-Garcia, Antonio; Rivas-Perez, Cristina; Vilar-Lopez, Raquel; Perez-Garcia, Miguel"	English	"individuals with substance dependence (isd) frequently show signs of impaired emotion processing, self-regulation and decision-making, even after prolonged abstinence from drug use and partial recovery of other neuropsychological functions. these impairments have been associated with alterations in the orbitofrontal cortex (ofc) in lesion and imaging studies. the aim of this study was to examine the performance of a group of isd, who had been abstinent for at least 4 months, on a series of emotional perception, self-regulation and decision-making tests sensitive to ofc dysfunction. thirty isd (poly-substance abusers in their first year of abstinence) and 35 healthy comparison (hc) participants were in the study. we administered the ekman faces test (eft), the revised strategy application test (r-sat) and the iowa gambling task (igt) to both isd and hc. results showed that the isd presented significant deficits in the recognition of facial emotional expressions and decision-making as measured by the eft and the igt. the isd also showed poorer strategy awareness, impaired self-regulation and higher impulsivity on the r-sat. we found significant correlations between the different measures linked to ofc functioning. we did not find significant correlations between length of abstinence and performance on these tests. these results suggest that the evaluation of emotion, self-regulation and decision-making contributes greatly to the characterization of the persistent deficits exhibited by isd during prolonged abstinence."	10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2006.05.024	*Decision Making; *Emotions; *Drug Abstinence; *Polydrug Abuse	"Individuals with substance dependence (ISD) frequently show signs of impaired emotion processing, self-regulation and decision-making, even after prolonged abstinence from drug use and partial recovery of other neuropsychological functions. These impairments have been associated with alterations in the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) in lesion and imaging studies. The aim of this study was to examine the performance of a group of ISD, who had been abstinent for at least 4 months, on a series of emotional perception, self-regulation and decision-making tests sensitive to OFC dysfunction. Thirty ISD (poly-substance abusers in their first year of abstinence) and 35 healthy comparison (HC) participants were in the study. We administered the Ekman Faces Test (EFT), the Revised Strategy Application Test (R-SAT) and the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) to both ISD and HC. Results showed that the ISD presented significant deficits in the recognition of facial emotional expressions and decision-making as measured by the EFT and the IGT. The ISD also showed poorer strategy awareness, impaired self-regulation and higher impulsivity on the R-SAT. We found significant correlations between the different measures linked to OFC functioning. We did not find significant correlations between length of abstinence and performance on these tests. These results suggest that the evaluation of emotion, self-regulation and decision-making contributes greatly to the characterization of the persistent deficits exhibited by ISD during prolonged abstinence. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	899	0	0	0	0	0	5	0	0	3	1	0	1	0	0	2	1	2	2	2	3
Probabilistic reward- and punishment-based learning in opioid addiction: Experimental and computational data.	2016	Behavioural Brain Research	0166-4328	296	"Baldacchino, A., Balfour, D.J., Passetti, F., Humphris, G., & Matthews, K. (2012). Neuropsychological consequences of chronic opioid use: a quantitative review and meta-analysis. Neurosci. Biobehav. Rev. 36(9), 2056-2068. https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/22771335 https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.neubiorev.2012.06.006 2012-26778-007."	240-248	"Myers, Catherine E; Sheynin, Jony; Balsdon, Tarryn; Luzardo, Andre; Beck, Kevin D; Hogarth, Lee; Haber, Paul; Moustafa, Ahmed A"	English	"addiction is the continuation of a habit in spite of negative consequences. a vast literature gives evidence that this poor decision-making behavior in individuals addicted to drugs also generalizes to laboratory decision making tasks, suggesting that the impairment in decision-making is not limited to decisions about taking drugs. in the current experiment, opioid-addicted individuals and matched controls with no history of illicit drug use were administered a probabilistic classification task that embeds both reward-based and punishment-based learning trials, and a computational model of decision making was applied to understand the mechanisms describing individuals' performance on the task. although behavioral results showed that opioid-addicted individuals performed as well as controls on both reward- and punishment-based learning, the modeling results suggested subtle differences in how decisions were made between the two groups. specifically, the opioid-addicted group showed decreased tendency to repeat prior responses, meaning that they were more likely to ""chase reward"" when expectancies were violated, whereas controls were more likely to stick with a previously-successful response rule, despite occasional expectancy violations. this tendency to chase short-term reward, potentially at the expense of developing rules that maximize reward over the long term, may be a contributing factor to opioid addiction. further work is indicated to better understand whether this tendency arises as a result of brain changes in the wake of continued opioid use/abuse, or might be a pre-existing factor that may contribute to risk for addiction."	10.1016/j.bbr.2015.09.018	*Rewards; *Opiates; *Punishment; *Drug Addiction; Reward Learning; *Probability Learning	"Addiction is the continuation of a habit in spite of negative consequences. A vast literature gives evidence that this poor decision-making behavior in individuals addicted to drugs also generalizes to laboratory decision making tasks, suggesting that the impairment in decision-making is not limited to decisions about taking drugs. In the current experiment, opioid-addicted individuals and matched controls with no history of illicit drug use were administered a probabilistic classification task that embeds both reward-based and punishment-based learning trials, and a computational model of decision making was applied to understand the mechanisms describing individuals' performance on the task. Although behavioral results showed that opioid-addicted individuals performed as well as controls on both reward- and punishment-based learning, the modeling results suggested subtle differences in how decisions were made between the two groups. Specifically, the opioid-addicted group showed decreased tendency to repeat prior responses, meaning that they were more likely to ""chase reward"" when expectancies were violated, whereas controls were more likely to stick with a previously-successful response rule, despite occasional expectancy violations. This tendency to chase short-term reward, potentially at the expense of developing rules that maximize reward over the long term, may be a contributing factor to opioid addiction. Further work is indicated to better understand whether this tendency arises as a result of brain changes in the wake of continued opioid use/abuse, or might be a pre-existing factor that may contribute to risk for addiction. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	508	0	1	2	2	2	2	0	0	1	0	3	3	1	1	0	0	4	1	8	1
Long-Term Outcomes of Adolescent THC Exposure on Translational Cognitive Measures in Adulthood in an Animal Model and Computational Assessment of Human Data	2023	JAMA PSYCHIATRY	2168-622X	80	1	66-76	"Ferland, JMN; Ellis, RJ; Betts, G; Silveira, MM; de Firmino, JB; Winstanley, CA; Hurd, YL"	English	"importance although perceived as relatively harmless and nonaddictive, adolescent cannabis use significantly increases the likelihood of developing cannabis use disorder in adulthood, especially for high-potency cannabis. risky decision-making is associated with chronic cannabis use, but given confounds of human studies, it remains unclear whether adolescent cannabis exposure and delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol (thc) potency specifically predicts risky decision-making or influences cognitive response to the drug later in life. objective to leverage a human data set of cannabis users and a rat model to evaluate the long-term outcomes of adolescent thc exposure on adult decision-making and impulse control. design, setting, and participants this translational rat study tested the link between adolescent thc exposure and adulthood decision-making. a reanalysis of a previously published dataset of human chronic cannabis users was conducted to evaluate decision-making phenotypes. computational modeling assessed the human and animal results in a single framework. data were collected from 2017 to 2020 and analyzed from 2020 to 2022. main outcomes and measures decision-making was measured by the iowa gambling task (igt) and rat gambling task (rgt). impulse control was assessed in the rat model. computational modeling was used to determine reward and punishment learning rates and learning strategy used by cannabis users and thc-exposed rats. cell-specific molecular measures were conducted in the prefrontal cortex and amygdala. results of 37 participants, 24 (65%) were male, and the mean (sd) age was 33.0 (8.3) years. chronic cannabis users (n = 22; mean [se] igt score, -5.182 [1.262]) showed disadvantageous decision-making compared with controls (n = 15; mean [se] igt score, 7.133 [2.687]; cohen d = 1.436). risky choice was associated with increased reward learning (mean [se] igt score: cannabis user, 0.170 [0.018]; control, 0.046 [0.008]; cohen d =1.895) and a strategy favoring exploration vs long-term gains (mean [se] igt score: cannabis user, 0.088 [0.012]; control, 0.020 [0.002]; cohen d = 2.218). rats exposed to high-dose thc but not low-dose thc during adolescence also showed increased risky decision-making (mean [se] rgt score: vehicle, 46.17 [7.02]; low-dose thc, 69.45 [6.01]; high-dose thc, 21.97 [11.98]; cohen d = 0.433) and elevated reward learning rates (mean [se] rgt score: vehicle, 0.17 [0.01]; low-dose thc, 0.10 [0.01]; high-dose thc, 0.24 [0.06]; cohen d =1.541) during task acquisition. these animals were also uniquely susceptible to increased cognitive impairments after reexposure to thc in adulthood, which was correlated with even greater reward learning (r = -0.525; p < .001) and a shift in strategy (r = 0.502; p < .001), similar to results seen in human cannabis users. molecular studies revealed that adolescent thc dose differentially affected cannabinoid-1 receptor messenger rna expression in the prelimbic cortex and basolateral amygdala in a layer-and cell-specific manner. further, astrocyte glial fibrillary acidic protein messenger rna expression associated with cognitive deficits apparent with adult thc reexposure. conclusions and relevance in this translational study, high-dose adolescent thc exposure was associated with cognitive vulnerability in adulthood, especially with thc re-exposure. these data also suggest a link between astrocytes and cognition that altogether provides important insights regarding the neurobiological genesis of risky cannabis use that may help promote prevention and treatment efforts."	10.1001/jamapsychiatry.2022.3915	CANNABINOID RECEPTORS; CHRONIC DELTA(9)-TETRAHYDROCANNABINOL; DECISION-MAKING; ENDOCANNABINOIDS; IMPULSIVITY; ORBITOFRONTAL CORTEX; PREVALENCE; PROJECTIONS; RAT BASOLATERAL AMYGDALA; USE DISORDERS	"IMPORTANCE Although perceived as relatively harmless and nonaddictive, adolescent cannabis use significantly increases the likelihood of developing cannabis use disorder in adulthood, especially for high-potency cannabis. Risky decision-making is associated with chronic cannabis use, but given confounds of human studies, it remains unclear whether adolescent cannabis exposure and delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) potency specifically predicts risky decision-making or influences cognitive response to the drug later in life. OBJECTIVE To leverage a human data set of cannabis users and a rat model to evaluate the long-term outcomes of adolescent THC exposure on adult decision-making and impulse control. DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS This translational rat study tested the link between adolescent THC exposure and adulthood decision-making. A reanalysis of a previously published dataset of human chronic cannabis users was conducted to evaluate decision-making phenotypes. Computational modeling assessed the human and animal results in a single framework. Data were collected from 2017 to 2020 and analyzed from 2020 to 2022. MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES Decision-making was measured by the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) and Rat Gambling Task (rGT). Impulse control was assessed in the rat model. Computational modeling was used to determine reward and punishment learning rates and learning strategy used by cannabis users and THC-exposed rats. Cell-specific molecular measures were conducted in the prefrontal cortex and amygdala. RESULTS Of 37 participants, 24 (65%) were male, and the mean (SD) age was 33.0 (8.3) years. Chronic cannabis users (n = 22; mean [SE] IGT score, -5.182 [1.262]) showed disadvantageous decision-making compared with controls (n = 15; mean [SE] IGT score, 7.133 [2.687]; Cohen d = 1.436). Risky choice was associated with increased reward learning (mean [SE] IGT score: cannabis user, 0.170 [0.018]; control, 0.046 [0.008]; Cohen d =1.895) and a strategy favoring exploration vs long-term gains (mean [SE] IGT score: cannabis user, 0.088 [0.012]; control, 0.020 [0.002]; Cohen d = 2.218). Rats exposed to high-dose THC but not low-dose THC during adolescence also showed increased risky decision-making (mean [SE] rGT score: vehicle, 46.17 [7.02]; low-dose THC, 69.45 [6.01]; high-dose THC, 21.97 [11.98]; Cohen d = 0.433) and elevated reward learning rates (mean [SE] rGT score: vehicle, 0.17 [0.01]; low-dose THC, 0.10 [0.01]; high-dose THC, 0.24 [0.06]; Cohen d =1.541) during task acquisition. These animals were also uniquely susceptible to increased cognitive impairments after reexposure to THC in adulthood, which was correlated with even greater reward learning (r = -0.525; P < .001) and a shift in strategy (r = 0.502; P < .001), similar to results seen in human cannabis users. Molecular studies revealed that adolescent THC dose differentially affected cannabinoid-1 receptor messenger RNA expression in the prelimbic cortex and basolateral amygdala in a layer-and cell-specific manner. Further, astrocyte glial fibrillary acidic protein messenger RNA expression associated with cognitive deficits apparent with adult THC reexposure. CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE In this translational study, high-dose adolescent THC exposure was associated with cognitive vulnerability in adulthood, especially with THC re-exposure. These data also suggest a link between astrocytes and cognition that altogether provides important insights regarding the neurobiological genesis of risky cannabis use that may help promote prevention and treatment efforts."	32	0	1	0	0	4	4	1	1	0	3	1	0	2	2	5	4	5	5	1	2
Task-level value affects trial-level reward processing.	2022	Neuroimage	1053-8119	260	"cpp, 9215515"	119456	"Hassall, Cameron; Hunt, Laurence; Holroyd, Clay"		": despite disagreement about how anterior cingulate cortex (acc) supports decision making, a recent hypothesis suggests that activity in this region is best understood in the context of a task or series of tasks. one important task-level variable is average reward because it is both a known driver of effortful behaviour and an important determiner of the tasks in which we choose to engage. here we asked how average task value affects reward-related acc activity. to answer this question, we measured a reward-related signal said to be generated in acc called the reward positivity (rewp) while participants gambled in three tasks of differing average value. the rewp was reduced in the high-value task, an effect that was not explainable by either reward magnitude or outcome expectancy. this result suggests that acc does not evaluate outcomes and cues in isolation, but in the context of the value of the current task.,"	10.1016/j.neuroimage.2022.119456	Electroencephalography; Anterior cingulate cortex; Average task value; Reward positivity	": Despite disagreement about how anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) supports decision making, a recent hypothesis suggests that activity in this region is best understood in the context of a task or series of tasks. One important task-level variable is average reward because it is both a known driver of effortful behaviour and an important determiner of the tasks in which we choose to engage. Here we asked how average task value affects reward-related ACC activity. To answer this question, we measured a reward-related signal said to be generated in ACC called the reward positivity (RewP) while participants gambled in three tasks of differing average value. The RewP was reduced in the high-value task, an effect that was not explainable by either reward magnitude or outcome expectancy. This result suggests that ACC does not evaluate outcomes and cues in isolation, but in the context of the value of the current task., (C) 2022Elsevier, Inc."	1000	0	0	0	1	1	0	0	0	3	1	0	1	0	0	2	1	2	2	5	1
The expectancy valence model of the Iowa Gambling Task: Can it produce reliable estimates for individuals?	2015	Journal of Mathematical Psychology	0022-2496	64-65	"Ahn, W.Y., Busemeyer, J., Wagenmakers, E.J., & Stout, J. (2008). Comparison of decision learning models using the generalization criterion method. Cognitive Science: A Multidisciplinary Journal, 32(8), 1376-1402."	17-34	"Humphries, M. A; Bruno, R; Karpievitch, Y; Wotherspoon, S"	English	"the expectancy valence model (evm) of the iowa gambling task (igt) is commonly used in studies to identify the underlying psychological processes responsible for decision making deficits. we show the evm does not provide clear information about decision making processes at the individual level by fitting the evm, with individual random effects, to a sample of participants from various drug using populations using bayesian techniques and to a sample of participants who complete the igt multiple times. in particular, we show that the individual-level parameter estimates from the model may be bi-modally distributed and hence are inherently ambiguous and have little psychological significance. in an attempt to increase the validity of individual-level parameter estimates, we also considered a 2-parameter version of the evm in which the consistency parameter was held constant. in the 2-parameter implementation of the evm, results were clearer and more easily interpretable than when using the traditional evm."	10.1016/j.jmp.2014.10.002	*Gambling; *Decision Making; *Statistical Probability; *Prefrontal Cortex; College Students	"The Expectancy Valence Model (EVM) of the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) is commonly used in studies to identify the underlying psychological processes responsible for decision making deficits. We show the EVM does not provide clear information about decision making processes at the individual level by fitting the EVM, with individual random effects, to a sample of participants from various drug using populations using Bayesian techniques and to a sample of participants who complete the IGT multiple times. In particular, we show that the individual-level parameter estimates from the model may be bi-modally distributed and hence are inherently ambiguous and have little psychological significance. In an attempt to increase the validity of individual-level parameter estimates, we also considered a 2-parameter version of the EVM in which the consistency parameter was held constant. In the 2-parameter implementation of the EVM, results were clearer and more easily interpretable than when using the traditional EVM. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	579	1	2	1	3	3	1	2	0	2	2	2	2	3	3	3	2	3	3	0	0
Validating the PVL-Delta model for the Iowa gambling task.	2013	Frontiers in Psychology		4	"Ahn, W.-Y., Busemeyer, J. R., Wagenmakers, E.-J., & Stout, J. C. (2008). Comparison of decision learning models using the generalization criterion method. Cogn. Sci. 32, 1376-1402 2009-11607-007. https://dx.doi.org/10.1080/03640210802352992 https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/21585458"		"Steingroever, Helen; Wetzels, Ruud; Wagenmakers, Eric-Jan"	English	"decision-making deficits in clinical populations are often assessed with the iowa gambling task (igt). performance on this task is driven by latent psychological processes, the assessment of which requires an analysis using cognitive models. two popular examples of such models are the expectancy valence (ev) and prospect valence learning (pvl) models. these models have recently been subjected to sophisticated procedures of model checking, spawning a hybrid version of the ev and pvl models-the pvl-delta model. in order to test the validity of the pvl-delta model we present a parameter space partitioning (psp) study and a test of selective influence. the psp study allows one to assess the choice patterns that the pvl-delta model generates across its entire parameter space. the psp study revealed that the model accounts for empirical choice patterns featuring a preference for the good decks or the decks with infrequent losses; however, the model fails to account for empirical choice patterns featuring a preference for the bad decks. the test of selective influence investigates the effectiveness of experimental manipulations designed to target only a single model parameter. this test showed that the manipulations were successful for all but one parameter. to conclude, despite a few shortcomings, the pvl-delta model seems to be a better igt model than the popular ev and pvl models."	10.3389/fpsyg.2013.00898	Learning; *Gambling; *Choice Behavior; *Decision Making; Affective Valence; Statistical Sample Parameters	"Decision-making deficits in clinical populations are often assessed with the Iowa gambling task (IGT). Performance on this task is driven by latent psychological processes, the assessment of which requires an analysis using cognitive models. Two popular examples of such models are the Expectancy Valence (EV) and Prospect Valence Learning (PVL) models. These models have recently been subjected to sophisticated procedures of model checking, spawning a hybrid version of the EV and PVL models-the PVL-Delta model. In order to test the validity of the PVL-Delta model we present a parameter space partitioning (PSP) study and a test of selective influence. The PSP study allows one to assess the choice patterns that the PVL-Delta model generates across its entire parameter space. The PSP study revealed that the model accounts for empirical choice patterns featuring a preference for the good decks or the decks with infrequent losses; however, the model fails to account for empirical choice patterns featuring a preference for the bad decks. The test of selective influence investigates the effectiveness of experimental manipulations designed to target only a single model parameter. This test showed that the manipulations were successful for all but one parameter. To conclude, despite a few shortcomings, the PVL-Delta model seems to be a better IGT model than the popular EV and PVL models. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	677	1	2	1	3	3	1	2	0	2	2	2	2	3	3	3	2	3	3	0	4
Trajectories of Reinforcement Sensitivity During Adolescence and Risk for Substance Use.	2013	Journal of Research on Adolescence (Wiley-Blackwell)	10508392	23	2	345-356	"Colder, Craig R.; Hawk, Larry W.; Lengua, Liliana J.; Wiezcorek, William; Eiden, Rina Das; Read, Jennifer P."		"developmental neuroscience models suggest that changes in responsiveness to incentives contribute to increases in adolescent risk behavior, including substance use. trajectories of sensitivity to reward ( sr) and sensitivity to punishment ( sp) were examined and tested as predictors of escalation of early substance use in a community sample of adolescents ( n = 765, mean baseline age 11.8 years, 54% female). sr and sp were assessed using a laboratory task. across three annual assessments, sr increased, and rapid escalation was associated with increases in substance use. sp declined and was unrelated to substance use. findings support contemporary views of adolescent brain development and suggest that early adolescent substance use is motivated by approach responses to reward, rather than failure to avoid potential aversive consequences."	10.1111/jora.12001	TEENAGERS; RISK-taking behavior; MATHEMATICAL models; NEUROSCIENCES; SUBSTANCE-induced disorders	"Developmental neuroscience models suggest that changes in responsiveness to incentives contribute to increases in adolescent risk behavior, including substance use. Trajectories of sensitivity to reward ( SR) and sensitivity to punishment ( SP) were examined and tested as predictors of escalation of early substance use in a community sample of adolescents ( N = 765, mean baseline age 11.8 years, 54% female). SR and SP were assessed using a laboratory task. Across three annual assessments, SR increased, and rapid escalation was associated with increases in substance use. SP declined and was unrelated to substance use. Findings support contemporary views of adolescent brain development and suggest that early adolescent substance use is motivated by approach responses to reward, rather than failure to avoid potential aversive consequences. [ABSTRACT FROM AUTHOR]"	2180	0	1	2	2	2	2	0	0	1	0	4	4	1	1	0	0	4	1	4	7
"Impaired Decision-Making, Higher Impulsivity, and Drug Severity in Substance Dependence and Pathological Gambling"	2015	JOURNAL OF ADDICTION MEDICINE	1932-0620	9	4	273-280	"Krmpotich, T; Mikulich-Gilbertson, S; Sakai, J; Thompson, L; Banich, MT; Tanabe, J"	English	"substance use disorder is characterized by impaired decision making, impulsivity, and risk taking. pathological gambling shares many of these characteristics, and having both diagnoses may be associated with greater problems than either diagnosis alone. we investigated whether among substance-dependent individuals, comorbid pathological gambling would be associated with worse decision making, greater impulsivity, risk taking, and drug severity. ninety-six substance-dependent individuals were recruited from a residential treatment program and divided into 1 of the 2 groups depending on whether they met diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders, fourth edition, criteria for pathological gambling (sdpg, n = 26) or not (sd, n = 70). ninety-two controls were recruited from the community. participants completed a decision-making task (modified iowa gambling task), measures of impulsivity (barratt impulsivity scale and delay discounting), and risk taking (balloon analog risk task). decision making was analyzed using a computational model. we tested for group differences using analysis of covariance or kruskal-wallis and appropriate post-hoc tests. the groups differed in decision-making parameters (p < 0.001) and self-reported impulsivity (p < 0.001). all post-hoc comparisons were significant on these measures, and indicated stepwise changes in controls, followed by sd, followed by sdpg, with sdpg performing worse on decision making and being more impulsive. compared with sd, sdpg had greater drug severity (p < 0.001). no group differences were observed in delay discounting or risk taking. compared with individuals with substance dependence without pathological gambling, those with both disorders demonstrated worse decision making and significantly more drug-related symptoms. when evaluating patients with substance dependence, clinicians should consider diagnostic assessments for gambling, as the co-occurrence of both disorders may impact clinical characteristics."	10.1097/ADM.0000000000000129	ALCOHOL-USE; CANNABIS; computational modeling; decision making; DELAYED REWARDS; GAMBLERS; impulsivity; NATIONAL EPIDEMIOLOGIC SURVEY; pathological gambling; PREFRONTAL CORTEX; RESPONSE THEORY ANALYSIS; RISK-TAKING; substance dependence; TASK; USE DISORDERS	"Objectives: Substance use disorder is characterized by impaired decision making, impulsivity, and risk taking. Pathological gambling shares many of these characteristics, and having both diagnoses may be associated with greater problems than either diagnosis alone. We investigated whether among substance-dependent individuals, comorbid pathological gambling would be associated with worse decision making, greater impulsivity, risk taking, and drug severity. Methods: Ninety-six substance-dependent individuals were recruited from a residential treatment program and divided into 1 of the 2 groups depending on whether they met Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition, criteria for pathological gambling (SDPG, n = 26) or not (SD, n = 70). Ninety-two controls were recruited from the community. Participants completed a decision-making task (modified Iowa Gambling Task), measures of impulsivity (Barratt Impulsivity Scale and Delay Discounting), and risk taking (Balloon Analog Risk Task). Decision making was analyzed using a computational model. We tested for group differences using analysis of covariance or Kruskal-Wallis and appropriate post-hoc tests. Results: The groups differed in decision-making parameters (P < 0.001) and self-reported impulsivity (P < 0.001). All post-hoc comparisons were significant on these measures, and indicated stepwise changes in controls, followed by SD, followed by SDPG, with SDPG performing worse on decision making and being more impulsive. Compared with SD, SDPG had greater drug severity (P < 0.001). No group differences were observed in delay discounting or risk taking. Conclusions: Compared with individuals with substance dependence without pathological gambling, those with both disorders demonstrated worse decision making and significantly more drug-related symptoms. When evaluating patients with substance dependence, clinicians should consider diagnostic assessments for gambling, as the co-occurrence of both disorders may impact clinical characteristics."	20	0	1	2	2	2	2	0	0	1	0	4	4	1	1	0	0	4	1	4	7
The impact of subjective cognitive decline on Iowa Gambling Task performance.	2015	Neuropsychology	0894-4105	29	6	971-987	"Smart, Colette M; Krawitz, Adam"	English	"to ascertain whether the iowa gambling task (igt) could be used to detect and identify measurable cognitive differences between older adults with subjective cognitive decline (scd) as compared with healthy older controls (hc). method: older adults with self-identified scd and age-matched controls completed a comprehensive neuropsychological assessment battery including the clinical version of the igt, as well as self-report measures of mood and personality. the groups did not differ on clinically normed scores on the igt. however, the groups did differ in the specific decks chosen as they progressed through the task, with the scd group choosing the advantageous, high loss-frequency deck (deck c) more often toward the end of the task. using hierarchical bayesian parameter estimation, we show that the prospect valence learning (pvl) model outperforms the expectancy valence learning (evl) model in parsimoniously accounting for task performance by both groups. the pvl model explains the difference in deck choices between groups as being because of an underlying difference in their learning rate, with the scd group emphasizing the current outcome over past outcomes more than the hc group. behavioral results indicate measureable differences in risky decision making in older adults with scd as compared with healthy controls. modeling results allow us to interpret this difference as potentially being because of rapid forgetting of trial-to-trial information. this work furthers our understanding of scd, while demonstrating the use of computational modeling in the interpretation of neuropsychological data."	10.1037/neu0000204	Models; Learning; Age Differences; *Decision Making; *Cognitive Impairment; *Aging	"Objective: To ascertain whether the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) could be used to detect and identify measurable cognitive differences between older adults with subjective cognitive decline (SCD) as compared with healthy older controls (HC). Method: Older adults with self-identified SCD and age-matched controls completed a comprehensive neuropsychological assessment battery including the clinical version of the IGT, as well as self-report measures of mood and personality. Results: The groups did not differ on clinically normed scores on the IGT. However, the groups did differ in the specific decks chosen as they progressed through the task, with the SCD group choosing the advantageous, high loss-frequency deck (Deck C) more often toward the end of the task. Using hierarchical Bayesian parameter estimation, we show that the prospect valence learning (PVL) model outperforms the expectancy valence learning (EVL) model in parsimoniously accounting for task performance by both groups. The PVL model explains the difference in deck choices between groups as being because of an underlying difference in their learning rate, with the SCD group emphasizing the current outcome over past outcomes more than the HC group. Conclusions: Behavioral results indicate measureable differences in risky decision making in older adults with SCD as compared with healthy controls. Modeling results allow us to interpret this difference as potentially being because of rapid forgetting of trial-to-trial information. This work furthers our understanding of SCD, while demonstrating the use of computational modeling in the interpretation of neuropsychological data. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	570	0	0	0	0	0	3	0	0	3	1	0	1	4	0	4	5	0	6	3	8
Neurocognitive determinants of novelty and sensation-seeking in individuals with alcoholism.	2011	Alcohol and Alcoholism	0735-0414	46	4	407-415	"Noel, Xavier; Brevers, Damien; Bechara, Antoine; Hanak, Catherine; Kornreich, Charles; Verbanck, Paul; Le Bon, Olivier"	English	"aim: sober alcoholic abusers exhibit personality traits such as novelty-seeking (ns) and sensation-seeking, which overlap to a limited extent. in parallel, they also show impaired executive and decision-making processes. however, little is known about the specific and common cognitive processes associated with ns and sensation-seeking personality traits in detoxified sober alcoholic abusers. in these present studies, we have investigated the relationships between executive functioning/central executive of working memory (pre-potent response inhibition, manipulation stored in working memory), and decision-making under uncertainty and ns/sensation-seeking traits in such alcoholics. compared with healthy controls (n = 30, mean age = 40.2), and in agreement with previous studies, alcoholics (n = 30, mean age = 40.4) showed higher levels of both ns and sensation-seeking traits. alcoholics were also disadvantaged with respect to (a) gambling tasks, as reported previously, and (b) a poor ability to manipulate information stored in working memory and inhibit pre-potent responses. most importantly, regression analyses and mediation analyses measures showed that poor response inhibition and decision-making were associated with high ns behaviour. in addition, impaired decision-making and manipulation of stored information in working memory were associated with a high sensation-seeking trait. overall, these results support the existence of specific links between cognitive executive functioning, decision-making under uncertainty and ns/sensation-seeking personality traits in individuals with alcoholism."	10.1093/alcalc/agr048	*Personality Traits; *Sensation Seeking; *Neurocognition; *Alcoholism	"Aim: Sober alcoholic abusers exhibit personality traits such as novelty-seeking (NS) and sensation-seeking, which overlap to a limited extent. In parallel, they also show impaired executive and decision-making processes. However, little is known about the specific and common cognitive processes associated with NS and sensation-seeking personality traits in detoxified sober alcoholic abusers. Methods: In these present studies, we have investigated the relationships between executive functioning/central executive of working memory (pre-potent response inhibition, manipulation stored in working memory), and decision-making under uncertainty and NS/sensation-seeking traits in such alcoholics. Results: Compared with healthy controls (n = 30, mean age = 40.2), and in agreement with previous studies, alcoholics (n = 30, mean age = 40.4) showed higher levels of both NS and sensation-seeking traits. Alcoholics were also disadvantaged with respect to (a) gambling tasks, as reported previously, and (b) a poor ability to manipulate information stored in working memory and inhibit pre-potent responses. Most importantly, regression analyses and mediation analyses measures showed that poor response inhibition and decision-making were associated with high NS behaviour. In addition, impaired decision-making and manipulation of stored information in working memory were associated with a high sensation-seeking trait. Conclusions: Overall, these results support the existence of specific links between cognitive executive functioning, decision-making under uncertainty and NS/sensation-seeking personality traits in individuals with alcoholism. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	765	0	0	0	1	1	0	0	0	3	1	0	1	0	0	2	1	2	2	5	3
Diffusion tensor imaging and decision making in cocaine dependence.	2010	PLoS ONE		5	7		"Lane, Scott D; Steinberg, Joel L; Ma, Liangsuo; Hasan, Khader M; Kramer, Larry A; Zuniga, Edward A; Narayana, Ponnada A; Moeller, Frederick Gerard"	English	"chronic stimulant abuse is associated with both impairment in decision making and structural abnormalities in brain gray and white matter. recent data suggest these structural abnormalities may be related to functional impairment in important behavioral processes. methodology/principal findings: in 15 cocaine-dependent and 18 control subjects, we examined relationships between decision-making performance on the iowa gambling task (igt) and white matter integrity as measured by diffusion tensor imaging (dti). whole brain voxelwise analyses showed that, relative to controls, the cocaine group had lower fractional anisotropy (fa) and higher mean of the second and third eigenvalues (lambda) in frontal and parietal white matter regions and the corpus callosum. cocaine subjects showed worse performance on the igt, notably over the last 40 trials. importantly, fa and lambda values in these regions showed a significant relationship with igt performance on the last 40 trials. compromised white matter integrity in cocaine dependence may be related to functional impairments in decision making."	10.1371/journal.pone.0011591	Diffusion Tensor Imaging; *Decision Making; *Cocaine; Cognitive Impairment; *Drug Dependency; *White Matter	"Background: Chronic stimulant abuse is associated with both impairment in decision making and structural abnormalities in brain gray and white matter. Recent data suggest these structural abnormalities may be related to functional impairment in important behavioral processes. Methodology/Principal Findings: In 15 cocaine-dependent and 18 control subjects, we examined relationships between decision-making performance on the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) and white matter integrity as measured by diffusion tensor imaging (DTI). Whole brain voxelwise analyses showed that, relative to controls, the cocaine group had lower fractional anisotropy (FA) and higher mean of the second and third eigenvalues (lambda) in frontal and parietal white matter regions and the corpus callosum. Cocaine subjects showed worse performance on the IGT, notably over the last 40 trials. Importantly, FA and lambda values in these regions showed a significant relationship with IGT performance on the last 40 trials. Conclusions: Compromised white matter integrity in cocaine dependence may be related to functional impairments in decision making. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	807	0	0	0	0	0	5	0	0	3	1	0	1	0	0	2	3	2	2	2	1
Poor decision-making by chronic marijuana users is associated with decreased functional responsiveness to negative consequences.	2011	Psychiatry Research: Neuroimaging	0925-4927	191	1	51-59	"Wesley, Michael J; Hanlon, Colleen A; Porrino, Linda J"	English	"chronic marijuana users (mj users) perform poorly on the iowa gambling task (igt), a complex decision-making task in which monetary wins and losses guide strategy development. this functional magnetic resonance imaging (mri) study sought to determine if the poor performance of mj users was related to differences in brain activity while evaluating wins and losses during the strategy development phase of the igt. mj users (16) and controls (16) performed a modified igt in an mri scanner. performance was tracked and functional activity in response to early wins and losses was examined. while the mj users continued to perform poorly at the end of the task, there was no difference in group performance during the initial strategy development phase. during this phase, before the emergence of behavioral differences, controls exhibited significantly greater activity in response to losses in the anterior cingulate cortex, medial frontal cortex, precuneus, superior parietal lobe, occipital lobe and cerebellum as compared to mj users. furthermore, in controls, but not mj users, the functional response to losses in the anterior cingulate cortex, ventral medial prefrontal cortex and rostral prefrontal cortex positively correlated with performance over time. these data suggest mj users are less sensitive to negative feedback during strategy development."	10.1016/j.pscychresns.2010.10.002	Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging; *Decision Making; *Brain; *Drug Abuse; *Electrical Activity; *Marijuana; Consequence	"Chronic marijuana users (MJ Users) perform poorly on the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT), a complex decision-making task in which monetary wins and losses guide strategy development. This functional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) study sought to determine if the poor performance of MJ Users was related to differences in brain activity while evaluating wins and losses during the strategy development phase of the IGT. MJ Users (16) and Controls (16) performed a modified IGT in an MRI scanner. Performance was tracked and functional activity in response to early wins and losses was examined. While the MJ Users continued to perform poorly at the end of the task, there was no difference in group performance during the initial strategy development phase. During this phase, before the emergence of behavioral differences, Controls exhibited significantly greater activity in response to losses in the anterior cingulate cortex, medial frontal cortex, precuneus, superior parietal lobe, occipital lobe and cerebellum as compared to MJ Users. Furthermore, in Controls, but not MJ Users, the functional response to losses in the anterior cingulate cortex, ventral medial prefrontal cortex and rostral prefrontal cortex positively correlated with performance over time. These data suggest MJ Users are less sensitive to negative feedback during strategy development. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	787	0	1	0	0	4	4	0	0	1	0	3	3	1	1	0	3	1	0	1	1
Brain atrophy in long-term abstinent alcoholics who demonstrate impairment on a simulated gambling task.	2006	Neuroimage	1053-8119	32	3	1465-1471	"Fein, George; Landman, Bennett; Tran, Hoang; McGillivray, Shannon; Finn, Peter; Barakos, Jerome; Moon, Kirk"		": we recently demonstrated impairment on the simulated gambling task (sgt) in long-term abstinent alcoholics (absalc). brain regions that have been shown to be necessary for intact sgt performance are the ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmpfc) and the amygdala; patients with vmpfc or amygdalar damage demonstrate sgt impairments similar to those of substance abusing populations. we examined these brain regions, using t1-weighted mris, in the 101 participants from our previous study using voxel-based morphometry (vbm). vbm was performed using a modification we developed [fein, g., landman, b., tran, h., barakos, j., moon, k., di sclafani, v., shumway, r., 2006. statistical parametric mapping of brain morphology: sensitivity is dramatically increased by using brain-extracted images as inputs. neuroimage] of baron's procedure, [ baron, j.c., chetelat, g., desgranges, b., perchey, g., landeau, b., de la sayette, v., eustache, f., 2001. in vivo mapping of gray matter loss with voxel-based morphometry in mild alzheimer's disease. neuroimage 14 (2), 298-309], in which we use skull-stripped images as input. we also restricted the analysis to a roi consisting of the amygdala and vmpfc as defined by the talairach daemon resource. compared to the controls, the absalc participants had significant foci of reduced gray matter density within the amygdala. thus, sgt decision-making deficits are associated with reduced gray matter in the amygdala, a brain region previously implicated in similar decision-making impairments in neurological samples. this structurally based abnormality may be the result of long-term alcohol abuse or dependence, or it may reflect a pre-existing factor that predisposes one to severe alcoholism. from an image analysis perspective, this work demonstrates the increased sensitivity that results from using skull-stripped inputs and from restricting the analysis to a roi. without both of these methodological advances, no statistically significant finding would have been forthcoming from this work.,"	10.1016/j.neuroimage.2006.06.013	Decision-making; MRI; Amygdala; Alcohol abuse; Long-term abstinence; Simulated gambling task; Ventromedial prefrontal cortex	": We recently demonstrated impairment on the Simulated Gambling Task (SGT) in long-term abstinent alcoholics (AbsAlc). Brain regions that have been shown to be necessary for intact SGT performance are the ventromedial prefrontal cortex (VMPFC) and the amygdala; patients with VMPFC or amygdalar damage demonstrate SGT impairments similar to those of substance abusing populations. We examined these brain regions, using T1-weighted MRIs, in the 101 participants from our previous study using voxel-based morphometry (VBM). VBM was performed using a modification we developed [Fein, G., Landman, B., Tran, H., Barakos, J., Moon, K., Di Sclafani, V., Shumway, R., 2006. Statistical parametric mapping of brain morphology: sensitivity is dramatically increased by using brain-extracted images as inputs. Neuroimage] of Baron's procedure, [ Baron, J.C., Chetelat, G., Desgranges, B., Perchey, G., Landeau, B., de la Sayette, V., Eustache, F., 2001. In vivo mapping of gray matter loss with voxel-based morphometry in mild Alzheimer's disease. Neuroimage 14 (2), 298-309], in which we use skull-stripped images as input. We also restricted the analysis to a ROI consisting of the amygdala and VMPFC as defined by the Talairach Daemon resource. Compared to the controls, the AbsAlc participants had significant foci of reduced gray matter density within the amygdala. Thus, SGT decision-making deficits are associated with reduced gray matter in the amygdala, a brain region previously implicated in similar decision-making impairments in neurological samples. This structurally based abnormality may be the result of long-term alcohol abuse or dependence, or it may reflect a pre-existing factor that predisposes one to severe alcoholism. From an image analysis perspective, this work demonstrates the increased sensitivity that results from using skull-stripped inputs and from restricting the analysis to a ROI. Without both of these methodological advances, no statistically significant finding would have been forthcoming from this work., (C) 2006Elsevier, Inc."	1629	0	0	0	0	4	4	0	0	3	0	3	3	1	1	0	3	1	0	1	1
Spiking Phineas Gage: A Neurocomputational Theory of Cognitive-Affective Integration in Decision Making.	2004	Psychol Rev	0033-295X	111	1	67-79	"Wagar, Brandon; Thagard, Paul"		"the authors present a neurological theory of how cognitive information and emotional information are integrated in the nucleus accumbens during effective decision making. they describe how the nucleus accumbens acts as a gateway to integrate cognitive information from the ventromedial prefrontal cortex and the hippocampus with emotional information from the amygdala. the authors have modeled this integration by a network of spiking artificial neurons organized into separate areas and used this computational model to simulate 2 kinds of cognitive-affective integration. the model simulates successful performance by people with normal cognitive-affective integration. the model also simulates the historical case of phineas gage as well as subsequent patients whose ability to make decisions became impeded by damage to the ventromedial prefrontal cortex.,"	10.1037/0033-295X.111.1.67		"The authors present a neurological theory of how cognitive information and emotional information are integrated in the nucleus accumbens during effective decision making. They describe how the nucleus accumbens acts as a gateway to integrate cognitive information from the ventromedial prefrontal cortex and the hippocampus with emotional information from the amygdala. The authors have modeled this integration by a network of spiking artificial neurons organized into separate areas and used this computational model to simulate 2 kinds of cognitive-affective integration. The model simulates successful performance by people with normal cognitive-affective integration. The model also simulates the historical case of Phineas Gage as well as subsequent patients whose ability to make decisions became impeded by damage to the ventromedial prefrontal cortex., (C) 2004 by the American Psychological Association"	1686	0	0	0	1	1	0	0	0	3	1	0	5	0	0	2	1	2	2	5	1
A critical review of sex differences in decision-making tasks: Focus on the Iowa Gambling Task.	2013	Behavioural Brain Research	0166-4328	238	"Adinoff, B., Williams, M.J., Best, S.E., Harris, T.S., Chandler, P., & Devous, M.D. (2006). Sex differences in medial and lateral orbitofrontal cortex hypoperfusion in cocaine-dependent men and women. Gender Medicine, 3, 206-222. https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/17081954 https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/S1550-8579(06)80209-3"	95-108	"van den Bos, Ruud; Homberg, Judith; de Visser, Leonie"	English	"it has been observed that men and women show performance differences in the iowa gambling task (igt), a task of decision-making in which subjects through exploration learn to differentiate long-term advantageous from long-term disadvantageous decks of cards: men choose more cards from the long-term advantageous decks than women within the standard number of 100 trials. here, we aim at discussing psychological mechanisms and neurobiological substrates underlying sex differences in igt-like decision-making. our review suggests that women focus on both win-loss frequencies and long-term pay-off of decks, while men focus on long-term pay-off. furthermore, women may be more sensitive to occasional losses in the long-term advantageous decks than men. as a consequence hereof, women need 40-60 trials in addition before they reach the same level of performance as men. these performance differences are related to differences in activity in the orbitofrontal cortex and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex as well as in serotonergic activity and left-right hemispheric activity. sex differences in orbitofrontal cortex activity may be due to organisational effects of gonadal hormones early in life. the behavioural and neurobiological differences in the igt between men and women are an expression of more general sex differences in the regulation of emotions. we discuss these findings in the context of sex differences in information processing related to evolutionary processes. furthermore we discuss the relationship between these findings and real world decision-making."	10.1016/j.bbr.2012.10.002	*Decision Making; *Risk Taking; *Prefrontal Cortex; *Human Sex Differences; *Basal Ganglia	"It has been observed that men and women show performance differences in the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT), a task of decision-making in which subjects through exploration learn to differentiate long-term advantageous from long-term disadvantageous decks of cards: men choose more cards from the long-term advantageous decks than women within the standard number of 100 trials. Here, we aim at discussing psychological mechanisms and neurobiological substrates underlying sex differences in IGT-like decision-making. Our review suggests that women focus on both win-loss frequencies and long-term pay-off of decks, while men focus on long-term pay-off. Furthermore, women may be more sensitive to occasional losses in the long-term advantageous decks than men. As a consequence hereof, women need 40-60 trials in addition before they reach the same level of performance as men. These performance differences are related to differences in activity in the orbitofrontal cortex and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex as well as in serotonergic activity and left-right hemispheric activity. Sex differences in orbitofrontal cortex activity may be due to organisational effects of gonadal hormones early in life. The behavioural and neurobiological differences in the IGT between men and women are an expression of more general sex differences in the regulation of emotions. We discuss these findings in the context of sex differences in information processing related to evolutionary processes. Furthermore we discuss the relationship between these findings and real world decision-making. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	707	0	0	0	0	4	4	0	0	3	0	3	3	0	0	1	5	0	4	1	8
Cognitive mechanisms in risky decision-making in cannabis users	2014	ADICCIONES	0214-4840	26	2	146-158	"Alameda-Bailn, JR; Salguero-Alcaiz, MP; Merchn-Clavellino, A; Pano-Quesada, S"	Spanish	"the relationship between the use of cannabis and the decision-making processes was explored. a computerized version of the iowa gambling task (cards software) in its normal and reverse version was used, and the prospect valence learning (pvl) model, which characterize the process of decision-making based on the parameters: recency, consistency, loss aversion and utility shape, was applied. seventy-three cannabis consumers and a control group with 73 non-consumers participated in the study. in the normal mode, subjects in the control group scored higher than cannabis consumers. both groups showed consistent responses and aversion to loss. non-consumers showed greater influence of the gain-loss frequency, while consumers were more influenced by the magnitude of the gain-loss. the influence of immediate choices was higher among consumers who showed a quick oblivion while in the control group this process was more gradual. in the reverse mode, task performance was better among control group participants. both groups showed consistency, loss aversion, more influenced by the magnitude of the gain-loss, and low influence of immediate elections. the results show the relationship between drug use and the decision-making processes, being consistent with the results obtained in other studies where consumers had worse results than control group. moreover, the pvl parameters allow to adequately characterize decision-making. this confirms the relationship between drug use and decision-making by either the vulnerability prior to consumption or the neurotoxicity of drugs."	10.20882/adicciones.16	ADOLESCENTS; cannabis; decision-making; FUTURE CONSEQUENCES; Iowa Gambling Task; IOWA-GAMBLING-TASK; LEARNING-MODELS; MARIJUANA USERS; ORBITOFRONTAL CORTEX; PERFORMANCE; Prospect Valence Learning; SEX-DIFFERENCES; SOMATIC MARKER HYPOTHESIS; somatic markers; VENTROMEDIAL PREFRONTAL CORTEX	"The relationship between the use of cannabis and the decision-making processes was explored. A computerized version of the Iowa Gambling Task (Cards Software) in its normal and reverse version was used, and the Prospect Valence Learning (PVL) model, which characterize the process of decision-making based on the parameters: Recency, Consistency, Loss aversion and Utility shape, was applied. Seventy-three cannabis consumers and a control group with 73 non-consumers participated in the study. In the normal mode, subjects in the control group scored higher than cannabis consumers. Both groups showed consistent responses and aversion to loss. Non-consumers showed greater influence of the gain-loss frequency, while consumers were more influenced by the magnitude of the gain-loss. The influence of immediate choices was higher among consumers who showed a quick oblivion while in the control group this process was more gradual. In the reverse mode, task performance was better among control group participants. Both groups showed consistency, loss aversion, more influenced by the magnitude of the gain-loss, and low influence of immediate elections. The results show the relationship between drug use and the decision-making processes, being consistent with the results obtained in other studies where consumers had worse results than control group. Moreover, the PVL parameters allow to adequately characterize decision-making. This confirms the relationship between drug use and decision-making by either the vulnerability prior to consumption or the neurotoxicity of drugs."	37	0	1	0	0	4	4	1	1	0	3	1	0	2	2	5	4	5	5	1	2
Computational modelling of switching behaviour in repeated gambles.	2007	Artificial Intelligence Review	0269-2821	27	4	209-222	"Zhao, Jiaying; Costello, Fintan J"	English	"we present a computational model which predicts people's switching behavior in repeated gambling scenarios such as the iowa gambling task. this utility-caution model suggests that people's tendency to switch away from an option is due to a utility factor which reflects the probability and the amount of losses experienced compared to gains, and a caution factor which describes the number of choices made consecutively in that option. using a novel next-choice-prediction method, the utility-caution model was tested using two sets of data on the performance of participants in the iowa gambling task. the model produced significantly more accurate predictions of people's choices than the previous bayesian expected-utility model and expectancy-valence model."	10.1007/s10462-008-9083-4	*Gambling; *Choice Behavior; *Mathematical Modeling	"We present a computational model which predicts people's switching behavior in repeated gambling scenarios such as the Iowa Gambling Task. This Utility-Caution model suggests that people's tendency to switch away from an option is due to a utility factor which reflects the probability and the amount of losses experienced compared to gains, and a caution factor which describes the number of choices made consecutively in that option. Using a novel next-choice-prediction method, the Utility-Caution model was tested using two sets of data on the performance of participants in the Iowa Gambling Task. The model produced significantly more accurate predictions of people's choices than the previous Bayesian expected-utility model and expectancy-valence model. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	888	1	2	1	3	3	1	2	0	2	2	2	2	3	3	3	2	3	3	0	0
Gray matter abnormalities in opioid-dependent patients: A neuroimaging meta-analysis.	2017	The American Journal of Drug and Alcohol Abuse	0095-2990	43	5	505-517	"Wollman, Scott C; Alhassoon, Omar M; Hall, Matthew G; Stern, Mark J; Connors, Eric J; Kimmel, Christine L; Allen, Kenneth E; Stephan, Rick A; Radua, Joaquim"	English	"prior research utilizing whole-brain neuroimaging techniques has identified structural differences in gray matter in opioid-dependent individuals. however, the results have been inconsistent. the current study meta-analytically examines the neuroimaging findings of studies published before 2016 comparing opioid-dependent individuals to drug-naive controls. method: exhaustive search of five databases yielded 12 studies that met inclusion criteria. anisotropic effect-size seed-based d mapping (aes-sdm) was used to analyze the data extracted by three independent researchers. voxel-based aes-sdm distinguishes increases and decreases in brain matter significant at the whole-brain level. aes-sdm identified the fronto-temporal region, bilaterally, as being the primary site of gray matter deficits associated with opioid use. moderator analysis revealed that length of opioid use was negatively associated with gray matter in the left cerebellar vermis and the right rolandic operculum, including the insula. meta-regression revealed no remaining significant areas of gray matter reductions, except in the precuneus, following longer abstinence from opioids. opioid-dependent individuals had significantly less gray matter in several regions that play a key role in cognitive and affective processing. the findings provide evidence that opioid dependence may result in the breakdown of two distinct yet highly overlapping structural and functional systems. these are the fronto-cerebellar system that might be more responsible for impulsivity, compulsive behaviors, and affective disturbances and the fronto-insular system that might account more for the cognitive and decision-making impairments."	10.1080/00952990.2016.1245312	Heroin; *Neuroimaging; *Opiates; *Gray Matter; Insula	"Background: Prior research utilizing whole-brain neuroimaging techniques has identified structural differences in gray matter in opioid-dependent individuals. However, the results have been inconsistent. Objectives: The current study meta-analytically examines the neuroimaging findings of studies published before 2016 comparing opioid-dependent individuals to drug-naive controls. Method: Exhaustive search of five databases yielded 12 studies that met inclusion criteria. Anisotropic Effect-Size Seed-Based d Mapping (AES-SDM) was used to analyze the data extracted by three independent researchers. Voxel-based AES-SDM distinguishes increases and decreases in brain matter significant at the whole-brain level. Results: AES-SDM identified the fronto-temporal region, bilaterally, as being the primary site of gray matter deficits associated with opioid use. Moderator analysis revealed that length of opioid use was negatively associated with gray matter in the left cerebellar vermis and the right Rolandic operculum, including the insula. Meta-regression revealed no remaining significant areas of gray matter reductions, except in the precuneus, following longer abstinence from opioids. Conclusions: Opioid-dependent individuals had significantly less gray matter in several regions that play a key role in cognitive and affective processing. The findings provide evidence that opioid dependence may result in the breakdown of two distinct yet highly overlapping structural and functional systems. These are the fronto-cerebellar system that might be more responsible for impulsivity, compulsive behaviors, and affective disturbances and the fronto-insular system that might account more for the cognitive and decision-making impairments. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	426	0	0	0	0	0	5	0	0	3	1	0	1	0	0	2	3	1	0	2	1
Iowa Gambling Task in schizophrenia: A review and new data in patients with schizophrenia and co-occurring cannabis use disorders.	2007	Schizophrenia Research	0920-9964	92	3-Jan	74-84	"Sevy, Serge; Burdick, Katherine E; Visweswaraiah, Hema; Abdelmessih, Sherif; Lukin, Meredith; Yechiam, Eldad; Bechara, Antoine"	English	"we reviewed previous studies comparing schizophrenia patients and healthy subjects for performance on the iowa gambling task (igt) (a laboratory task designed to measure emotion-based decision-making), and found mixed we hypothesize that deficits in igt performance in schizophrenia may be more specifically related to concurrent substance use disorders. to test this hypothesis, we compared schizophrenia patients with (scz(+)) or without (scz(-)) cannabis use disorders, to healthy subjects, on measures of cognition and igt performance. a comprehensive battery of cognitive tests and the igt were administered to three groups of subjects: (1) 13 subjects with dsm-iv diagnosis of schizophrenia and no concurrent substance use disorders (mean age: 28+/-12 (sd); 54% males); (2) 14 subjects with schizophrenia and concurrent cannabis use disorders (mean age: 29+/-9 (sd); 71% males); and (3) 20 healthy subjects (mean age 33+/-10 (sd); 60% males). compared to the healthy group, both schizophrenia groups were cognitively more impaired, and did worse on igt performance. there were no differences between scz(+) and scz(-) patients on most of the cognitive tests, and igt performance. schizophrenia patients show widespread impairments in several cognitive domains and emotion-based decision-making. these results are consistent with the evidence that schizophrenia reflects a dorsolateral and orbitofrontal/ventromedial prefrontal cortex dysfunction. more intriguing, it appears that the concurrent abuse of cannabis has no compounding effects on cognition, as well as emotion/affect-based decision-making."	10.1016/j.schres.2007.01.005	Decision Making; Cannabis; Emotions; Neuropsychology; Psychological Assessment; *Schizophrenia; *Cognitive Impairment; Performance; *Prefrontal Cortex; *Comorbidity; *Drug Abuse	"Background: We reviewed previous studies comparing schizophrenia patients and healthy subjects for performance on the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) (a laboratory task designed to measure emotion-based decision-making), and found mixed results. We hypothesize that deficits in IGT performance in schizophrenia may be more specifically related to concurrent substance use disorders. To test this hypothesis, we compared schizophrenia patients with (SCZ(+)) or without (SCZ(-)) cannabis use disorders, to healthy subjects, on measures of cognition and IGT performance. Methods: A comprehensive battery of cognitive tests and the IGT were administered to three groups of subjects: (1) 13 subjects with DSM-IV diagnosis of schizophrenia and no concurrent substance use disorders (mean age: 28+/-12 (SD); 54% males); (2) 14 subjects with schizophrenia and concurrent cannabis use disorders (mean age: 29+/-9 (SD); 71% males); and (3) 20 healthy subjects (mean age 33+/-10 (SD); 60% males). Results: Compared to the healthy group, both schizophrenia groups were cognitively more impaired, and did worse on IGT performance. There were no differences between SCZ(+) and SCZ(-) patients on most of the cognitive tests, and IGT performance. Conclusions: Schizophrenia patients show widespread impairments in several cognitive domains and emotion-based decision-making. These results are consistent with the evidence that schizophrenia reflects a dorsolateral and orbitofrontal/ventromedial prefrontal cortex dysfunction. More intriguing, it appears that the concurrent abuse of cannabis has no compounding effects on cognition, as well as emotion/affect-based decision-making. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	896	0	1	2	2	2	2	1	1	0	3	1	0	2	2	5	4	5	5	8	2
The effects of acute alcohol administration on the human brain: Insights from neuroimaging.	2014	Neuropharmacology	0028-3908	84		101-110	"Bjork, James; Gilman, Jodi"		"over the last quarter century, researchers have peered into the living human brain to develop and refine mechanistic accounts of alcohol-induced behavior, as well as neurobiological mechanisms for development and maintenance of addiction. these in vivo neuroimaging studies generally show that acute alcohol administration affects brain structures implicated in motivation and behavior control, and that chronic intoxication is correlated with structural and functional abnormalities in these same structures, where some elements of these decrements normalize with extended sobriety. in this review, we will summarize recent findings about acute human brain responses to alcohol using neuroimaging techniques, and how they might explain behavioral effects of alcohol intoxication. we then briefly address how chronic alcohol intoxication (as inferred from cross-sectional differences between various drinking populations and controls) may yield individual brain differences between drinking subjects that may confound interpretation of acute alcohol administration effects., this article is part of the special issue section entitled 'neuroimaging in neuropharmacology'., highlights:, acute alcohol affects regional brain metabolism and functional connectivity., alcohol pre-treatment alters responses of brain regions evoked by cognitive tasks., alcohol effects occur in brain regions that govern motivation and behavior control., fmri responses to alcohol may be neural signatures of alcohol effects on behavior.,"	10.1016/j.neuropharm.2013.07.039	fMRI; Addiction; Alcohol; Neuroimaging; Positron Emission Tomography	"Over the last quarter century, researchers have peered into the living human brain to develop and refine mechanistic accounts of alcohol-induced behavior, as well as neurobiological mechanisms for development and maintenance of addiction. These in vivo neuroimaging studies generally show that acute alcohol administration affects brain structures implicated in motivation and behavior control, and that chronic intoxication is correlated with structural and functional abnormalities in these same structures, where some elements of these decrements normalize with extended sobriety. In this review, we will summarize recent findings about acute human brain responses to alcohol using neuroimaging techniques, and how they might explain behavioral effects of alcohol intoxication. We then briefly address how chronic alcohol intoxication (as inferred from cross-sectional differences between various drinking populations and controls) may yield individual brain differences between drinking subjects that may confound interpretation of acute alcohol administration effects., This article is part of the Special Issue Section entitled 'Neuroimaging in Neuropharmacology'., Highlights:, * Acute alcohol affects regional brain metabolism and functional connectivity., * Alcohol pre-treatment alters responses of brain regions evoked by cognitive tasks., * Alcohol effects occur in brain regions that govern motivation and behavior control., * fMRI responses to alcohol may be neural signatures of alcohol effects on behavior., (C) 2014Elsevier, Inc."	1357	0	0	0	0	4	4	0	0	3	0	3	3	1	1	0	3	1	0	1	6
"Component Processes of Decision Making in a Community Sample of Precariously Housed Persons: Associations With Learning and Memory, and Health-Risk Behaviors"	2021	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	1664-1078	12			"Baitz, HA; Jones, PW; Campbell, DA; Jones, AA; Gicas, KM; Giesbrecht, CJ; Thornton, WL; Barone, CC; Wang, NY; Panenka, WJ; Lang, DJ; Vila-Rodriguez, F; Leonova, O; Barr, AM; Procyshyn, RM; Buchanan, T; Rauscher, A; MacEwan, GW; Honer, WG; Thornton, AE"	English	"the iowa gambling task (igt) is a widely used measure of decision making, but its value in signifying behaviors associated with adverse, ""real-world"" consequences has not been consistently demonstrated in persons who are precariously housed or homeless. studies evaluating the ecological validity of the igt have primarily relied on traditional igt scores. however, computational modeling derives underlying component processes of the igt, which capture specific facets of decision making that may be more closely related to engagement in behaviors associated with negative consequences. this study employed the prospect valence learning (pvl) model to decompose igt performance into component processes in 294 precariously housed community residents with substance use disorders. results revealed a predominant focus on gains and a lack of sensitivity to losses in these vulnerable community residents. hypothesized associations were not detected between component processes and self-reported health-risk behaviors. these findings provide insight into the processes underlying decision making in a vulnerable substance-using population and highlight the challenge of linking specific decision making processes to ""real-world"" behaviors."	10.3389/fpsyg.2021.571423	ALCOHOL-USE; CANNABIS USE; decision making; DRUG; EXECUTIVE FUNCTIONS; health risk; homelessness and housing; Iowa Gambling Task; IOWA GAMBLING TASK; marginalization; MODELS; MONTE-CARLO; PERFORMANCE; precariously housed; prospect valence learning model; SENSATION SEEKING SCALE; substance use; SUBSTANCE USE	"The Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) is a widely used measure of decision making, but its value in signifying behaviors associated with adverse, ""real-world"" consequences has not been consistently demonstrated in persons who are precariously housed or homeless. Studies evaluating the ecological validity of the IGT have primarily relied on traditional IGT scores. However, computational modeling derives underlying component processes of the IGT, which capture specific facets of decision making that may be more closely related to engagement in behaviors associated with negative consequences. This study employed the Prospect Valence Learning (PVL) model to decompose IGT performance into component processes in 294 precariously housed community residents with substance use disorders. Results revealed a predominant focus on gains and a lack of sensitivity to losses in these vulnerable community residents. Hypothesized associations were not detected between component processes and self-reported health-risk behaviors. These findings provide insight into the processes underlying decision making in a vulnerable substance-using population and highlight the challenge of linking specific decision making processes to ""real-world"" behaviors."	26	0	1	0	0	0	3	0	0	1	0	3	3	0	0	1	1	2	2	3	3
Recent research on impulsivity in individuals with drug use and mental health disorders: Implications for alcoholism.	2010	Alcoholism: Clinical and Experimental Research	0145-6008	34	8	1319-1333	"Rogers, Robert D; Moeller, Frederick G; Swann, Alan C; Clark, Luke"	English	"alcohol misuse and dependence, and many of its accompanying psychological problems, are associated with heightened levels of impulsivity that both accelerate the development of clinically significant illness and complicate clinical outcome. this article reviews recent developments in our understanding of impulsivity as they relate to brain circuitry that might underlie these comorbid factors, focusing upon the clinical features of substance use (and dependence), bipolar disorder, and pathological gambling. individuals who are affected by these disorders exhibit problems in several domains of impulsive behavior including deficient response or ""motor"" control, and the tolerance of prolonged delays prior to larger rewards at the expense of smaller rewards (""delay-discounting""). these populations, like alcoholic dependents, also exhibit impairments in risky decision-making that may reflect dysfunction of monoamine and catecholamine pathways. however, several areas of uncertainty exist including the specificity of impairments across disorders and the relationship between impulse control problems and altered evaluation of reward outcomes underlying observed impairments in action selection."	10.1111/j.1530-0277.2010.01216.x	Brain; Experimentation; *Impulsiveness; Mental Disorders; *Alcoholism; Bipolar Disorder; *Drug Abuse; *Drug Dependency; Gambling Disorder	"Alcohol misuse and dependence, and many of its accompanying psychological problems, are associated with heightened levels of impulsivity that both accelerate the development of clinically significant illness and complicate clinical outcome. This article reviews recent developments in our understanding of impulsivity as they relate to brain circuitry that might underlie these comorbid factors, focusing upon the clinical features of substance use (and dependence), bipolar disorder, and pathological gambling. Individuals who are affected by these disorders exhibit problems in several domains of impulsive behavior including deficient response or ""motor"" control, and the tolerance of prolonged delays prior to larger rewards at the expense of smaller rewards (""delay-discounting""). These populations, like alcoholic dependents, also exhibit impairments in risky decision-making that may reflect dysfunction of monoamine and catecholamine pathways. However, several areas of uncertainty exist including the specificity of impairments across disorders and the relationship between impulse control problems and altered evaluation of reward outcomes underlying observed impairments in action selection. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2023 APA, all rights reserved)"	791	0	1	2	2	2	2	0	0	1	0	4	4	1	1	0	0	4	1	8	7
Blunted reward sensitivity and trait disinhibition interact to predict substance use problems.	2019	Clinical Psychological Science	2167-7026	7	5	1109-1124	"Joyner, Keanan J; Bowyer, Colin B; Yancey, James R; Venables, Noah C; Foell, Jens; Worthy, Darrell A; Hajcak, Greg; Bartholow, Bruce D; Patrick, Christopher J"	English	"reward-deficit models of addiction posit weaknesses in reward sensitivity to be promotive of substance dependence, whereas the externalizing spectrum model views substance problems as arising in large part from a general disinhibitory liability. in the current study we sought to integrate these perspectives by testing for separate and interactive associations of disinhibition and reward dysfunction with interview-assessed substance use disorders (suds). community and college adults (n = 199) completed a scale measure of trait disinhibition and performed a gambling-feedback task yielding a neural index of reward sensitivity, the ""reward positivity"" (rewp). disinhibition and blunted rewp independently predicted suds and also operated synergistically, such that participants-in particular, men-with high levels of disinhibition together with blunted rewp exhibited especially severe substance problems. though limited by its cross-sectional design, this work provides new information about the interplay of disinhibition, reward processing, and gender in suds and suggests important directions for future research."	10.1177/2167702619838480	Test Construction; *Rewards; *Substance Use Disorder; *Drug Usage; *Addiction; Externalization; *Drug Sensitivity; Drug Dependency; Reward Sensitivity	"Reward-deficit models of addiction posit weaknesses in reward sensitivity to be promotive of substance dependence, whereas the externalizing spectrum model views substance problems as arising in large part from a general disinhibitory liability. In the current study we sought to integrate these perspectives by testing for separate and interactive associations of disinhibition and reward dysfunction with interview-assessed substance use disorders (SUDs). Community and college adults (N = 199) completed a scale measure of trait disinhibition and performed a gambling-feedback task yielding a neural index of reward sensitivity, the ""Reward Positivity"" (RewP). Disinhibition and blunted RewP independently predicted SUDs and also operated synergistically, such that participants-in particular, men-with high levels of disinhibition together with blunted RewP exhibited especially severe substance problems. Though limited by its cross-sectional design, this work provides new information about the interplay of disinhibition, reward processing, and gender in SUDs and suggests important directions for future research. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2022 APA, all rights reserved)"	288	0	1	2	2	2	2	0	0	1	0	4	4	1	1	0	0	4	1	8	7
Cognitive modeling analysis of decision-making processes in cocaine abusers.	2004	Psychonomic Bulletin & Review	1069-9384	11	4	742-747	"Stout, Julie C; Busemeyer, Jerome R; Lin, Anli; Grant, Steven J; Bonson, Katherine R"	English	"this article examines the theoretical basis of decision-making deficits exhibited by cocaine abusers in a laboratory decision-making task first described by bechara, damasio, damasio, and anderson (1994). a total of 12 male cocaine abusers and 14 comparison subjects performed the task, and the cocaine group performed significantly worse than the comparison group. a cognitive modeling analysis (busemeyer & stout, 2002) was used to estimate three parameters that measure importance of the cognitive, motivational, and response processes for determining the observed performance deficit. the results of this analysis indicated, for the first time, that motivational and choice consistency factors, but not learning/memory were mainly responsible for the decision-making deficit of the cocaine abusers in this task."	10.3758/BF03196629	*Decision Making; *Cocaine; *Cognitive Ability; *Drug Abuse	"This article examines the theoretical basis of decision-making deficits exhibited by cocaine abusers in a laboratory decision-making task first described by Bechara, Damasio, Damasio, and Anderson (1994). A total of 12 male cocaine abusers and 14 comparison subjects performed the task, and the cocaine group performed significantly worse than the comparison group. A cognitive modeling analysis (Busemeyer & Stout, 2002) was used to estimate three parameters that measure importance of the cognitive, motivational, and response processes for determining the observed performance deficit. The results of this analysis indicated, for the first time, that motivational and choice consistency factors, but not learning/memory were mainly responsible for the decision-making deficit of the cocaine abusers in this task. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	927	0	0	0	0	0	5	0	0	3	1	0	1	0	0	2	1	2	2	2	5
Decision making in addiction to crack: A study with the Iowa Gambling Task.	2012	Tomada de decisao em dependentes de crack: um estudo com o Iowa Gambling Task.	1413-294X	17	1	99-106	"Viola, Thiago Wendt; Cardoso, Caroline de Oliveira; Francke, Ingrid D'Avila; Goncalves, Hosana Alves; Pezzi, Julio Carlos; Araujo, Renata Brasil; Fonseca, Rochele Paz; Grassi-Oliveira, Rodrigo"	Portuguese	"this study investigated how decision-making process occurs in crack dependents through the iowa gambling task (igt). 30 participants were selected to crack dependent group-gdc, and 15 non-users controls-gnu, from both sexes. we used the cocaine craving questionnaire-brief to assess the craving intensity. there were significant differences between groups both in the total-calculus score and in the blocks scores. the learning curve of the gdc was constant and negative during almost all game, except in the very ending when a suggestion of learning was observed. regarding the task performance's classification, the analysis showed that a significant number of controls participants achieved a non-impaired performance, opposed to gdc performance. the differences between groups investigated in the igt corroborate with a previous study finding, about a worse decision-making process associated with cocaine and crack addiction."	10.1590/S1413-294X2012000100012	*Decision Making; *Crack Cocaine	"This study investigated how decision-making process occurs in crack dependents through the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT). 30 participants were selected to crack dependent group-GDC, and 15 non-users controls-GNU, from both sexes. We used the Cocaine Craving Questionnaire-Brief to assess the craving intensity. There were significant differences between groups both in the total-calculus score and in the blocks scores. The learning curve of the GDC was constant and negative during almost all game, except in the very ending when a suggestion of learning was observed. Regarding the task performance's classification, the analysis showed that a significant number of controls participants achieved a non-impaired performance, opposed to GDC performance. The differences between groups investigated in the IGT corroborate with a previous study finding, about a worse decision-making process associated with cocaine and crack addiction. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	723	0	0	0	0	0	5	0	0	3	1	0	1	0	0	1	5	0	4	2	3
Metabolic and functional substrates of impulsive decision-making in individuals with heroin addiction after prolonged methadone maintenance treatment.	2023	NeuroImage	1053-8119	283	"Ahn, W.Y., Dai, J., Vassileva, J., Busemeyer, J.R., & Stout, J.C. (2016). Computational modeling for addiction medicine: from cognitive models to clinical applications. Prog. Brain Res. 224, 53-65. https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/26822353 https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/bs.pbr.2015.07.032"	10-Jan	"Lv, Qian; Zhang, Miao; Jiang, Haifeng; Liu, Yilin; Zhao, Shaoling; Xu, Xiaomin; Zhang, Wenlei; Chen, Tianzhen; Su, Hang; Zhang, Jiangtao; Wang, Heqiu; Zhang, Jianmin; Feng, Yuanjing; Li, Yongqiang; Li, Biao; Zhao, Min; Wang, Zheng"	English	"elevated impulsivity has been frequently reported in individuals with opioid addiction receiving methadone maintenance therapy (mmt), but the underlying neural mechanisms and cognitive subprocesses are not fully understood. we acquired functional magnetic resonance imaging (fmri) data from 37 subjects with heroin addiction receiving long-term mmt and 33 healthy controls who performed a probabilistic reversal learning task, and measured their resting-state brain glucose using fluorine-18-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (18f-fdg pet). subjects receiving mmt exhibited significantly elevated self-reported impulsivity, and computational modeling revealed a marked impulsive decision bias manifested as switching more frequently without available evidence. moreover, this impulsive decision bias was associated with the dose and duration of methadone use, irrelevant to the duration of heroin use. during the task, the switch-related hypoactivation in the left rostral middle frontal gyrus was correlated with the impulsive decision bias while the function of reward sensitivity was intact in subjects receiving mmt. using prior brain-wide receptor density data, we found that the highest variance of regional metabolic abnormalities was explained by the spatial distribution of micro-opioid receptors among 10 types of neurotransmitter receptors. heightened impulsivity in individuals receiving prolonged mmt is manifested as atypical choice bias and noise in decision-making processes, which is further driven by deficits in top-down cognitive control, other than reward sensitivity. our findings uncover multifaceted mechanisms underlying elevated impulsivity in subjects receiving mmt, which might provide insights for developing complementary therapies to improve retention during mmt."	10.1016/j.neuroimage.2023.120421	*Computational Modeling; *Impulsiveness; *Addiction Treatment; *Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging; *Heroin Use Disorder; *Methadone Maintenance; *Multimodal Treatment Approach; *Positron Emission Tomography	"Elevated impulsivity has been frequently reported in individuals with opioid addiction receiving methadone maintenance therapy (MMT), but the underlying neural mechanisms and cognitive subprocesses are not fully understood. We acquired functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data from 37 subjects with heroin addiction receiving long-term MMT and 33 healthy controls who performed a probabilistic reversal learning task, and measured their resting-state brain glucose using fluorine-18-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (18F-FDG PET). Subjects receiving MMT exhibited significantly elevated self-reported impulsivity, and computational modeling revealed a marked impulsive decision bias manifested as switching more frequently without available evidence. Moreover, this impulsive decision bias was associated with the dose and duration of methadone use, irrelevant to the duration of heroin use. During the task, the switch-related hypoactivation in the left rostral middle frontal gyrus was correlated with the impulsive decision bias while the function of reward sensitivity was intact in subjects receiving MMT. Using prior brain-wide receptor density data, we found that the highest variance of regional metabolic abnormalities was explained by the spatial distribution of micro-opioid receptors among 10 types of neurotransmitter receptors. Heightened impulsivity in individuals receiving prolonged MMT is manifested as atypical choice bias and noise in decision-making processes, which is further driven by deficits in top-down cognitive control, other than reward sensitivity. Our findings uncover multifaceted mechanisms underlying elevated impulsivity in subjects receiving MMT, which might provide insights for developing complementary therapies to improve retention during MMT. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2023 APA, all rights reserved)"	95	0	1	0	0	4	4	0	0	1	0	3	3	1	1	0	1	1	0	1	1
The cognitive processes underlying affective decision-making predicting adolescent smoking behaviors in a longitudinal study.	2013	Frontiers in Psychology		4	"Bechara, A. (2004). The role of emotion in decision-making: evidence from neurological patients with orbitofrontal damage. Brain Cogn. 55, 30-40 2004-14591-003. https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.bandc.2003.04.001 https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/15134841"		"Xiao, Lin; Koritzky, Gilly; Johnson, C. Anderson; Bechara, Antoine"	English	"this study investigates the relationship between three different cognitive processes underlying the iowa gambling task (igt) and adolescent smoking behaviors in a longitudinal study. we conducted a longitudinal study of 181 chinese adolescents in chengdu city, china. the participants were followed from 10th to 11th grade. when they were in the 10th grade (time 1), we tested these adolescents' decision-making using the igt and working memory capacity using the self-ordered pointing test (sopt). self-report questionnaires were used to assess school academic performance and smoking behaviors. the same questionnaires were completed again at the 1-year follow-up (time 2). the expectancy-valence (ev) model was applied to distill the igt performance into three different underlying psychological components: (i) a motivational component which indicates the subjective weight the adolescents assign to gains vs. losses; (ii) a learning-rate component which indicates the sensitivity to recent outcomes vs. past experiences; and (iii) a response component which indicates how consistent the adolescents are between learning and responding. the subjective weight to gains vs. losses at time 1 significantly predicted current smokers and current smoking levels at time 2, controlling for demographic variables and baseline smoking behaviors. therefore, by decomposing the igt into three different psychological components, we found that the motivational process of weight gain vs. losses may serve as a neuropsychological marker to predict adolescent smoking behaviors in a general youth population."	10.3389/fpsyg.2013.00685	Gambling; Adolescent Development; *Decision Making; *Cognitive Processes; *Tobacco Smoking	"This study investigates the relationship between three different cognitive processes underlying the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) and adolescent smoking behaviors in a longitudinal study. We conducted a longitudinal study of 181 Chinese adolescents in Chengdu City, China. The participants were followed from 10th to 11th grade. When they were in the 10th grade (Time 1), we tested these adolescents' decision-making using the IGT and working memory capacity using the Self-ordered Pointing Test (SOPT). Self-report questionnaires were used to assess school academic performance and smoking behaviors. The same questionnaires were completed again at the 1-year follow-up (Time 2). The Expectancy-Valence (EV) Model was applied to distill the IGT performance into three different underlying psychological components: (i) a motivational component which indicates the subjective weight the adolescents assign to gains vs. losses; (ii) a learning-rate component which indicates the sensitivity to recent outcomes vs. past experiences; and (iii) a response component which indicates how consistent the adolescents are between learning and responding. The subjective weight to gains vs. losses at Time 1 significantly predicted current smokers and current smoking levels at Time 2, controlling for demographic variables and baseline smoking behaviors. Therefore, by decomposing the IGT into three different psychological components, we found that the motivational process of weight gain vs. losses may serve as a neuropsychological marker to predict adolescent smoking behaviors in a general youth population. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	678	0	0	0	0	0	3	0	0	3	0	3	3	0	0	1	1	2	2	3	3
A Comparison of Reinforcement Learning Models for the Iowa Gambling Task Using Parameter Space Partitioning.	2013	Journal of Problem Solving	19326246	5	2	Jan-32	"Steingroever, Helen; Wetzels, Ruud; Eric-Jan Wagenmakers"		"the iowa gambling task (igt) is one of the most popular tasks used to study decisionmaking deficits in clinical populations. in order to decompose performance on the igt in its constituent psychological processes, several cognitive models have been proposed (e.g., the expectancy valence (ev) and prospect valence learning (pvl) models). here we present a comparison of three models--the ev and pvl models, and a combination of these models (ev-pu)--based on the method of parameter space partitioning. this method allows us to assess the choice patterns predicted by the models across their entire parameter space. our results show that the ev model is unable to account for a frequency-of-losses effect, whereas the pvl and ev-pu models are unable to account for a pronounced preference for the bad decks with many switches. all three models underrepresent pronounced choice patterns that are frequently seen in experiments. overall, our results suggest that the search of an appropriate igt model has not yet come to an end."	10.7771/1932-6246.1150	decision making; Expectancy Valence model; REINFORCEMENT learning; loss aversion; DECISION making; GAMBLING; EXPECTANCY-value theory; PARALLEL algorithms; Prospect Valence Learning model	"The Iowa gambling task (IGT) is one of the most popular tasks used to study decisionmaking deficits in clinical populations. In order to decompose performance on the IGT in its constituent psychological processes, several cognitive models have been proposed (e.g., the Expectancy Valence (EV) and Prospect Valence Learning (PVL) models). Here we present a comparison of three models--the EV and PVL models, and a combination of these models (EV-PU)--based on the method of parameter space partitioning. This method allows us to assess the choice patterns predicted by the models across their entire parameter space. Our results show that the EV model is unable to account for a frequency-of-losses effect, whereas the PVL and EV-PU models are unable to account for a pronounced preference for the bad decks with many switches. All three models underrepresent pronounced choice patterns that are frequently seen in experiments. Overall, our results suggest that the search of an appropriate IGT model has not yet come to an end. [ABSTRACT FROM AUTHOR]"	2186	1	2	1	3	3	1	2	0	2	2	2	2	3	3	3	2	3	3	0	4
A mixed-effects expectancy-valence model for the Iowa gambling task.	2009	Behavior Research Methods	1554-351X	41	3	657-663	"Cheng, Chung-Ping; Sheu, Ching-Fan; Yen, Nai-Shing"	English	"the iowa gambling task (igt; bechara, damasio, damasio, & anderson, 1994) was developed to simulate real-life decision making under uncertainty. the task has been widely used to examine possible neurocognitive deficits in normal and clinical populations. busemeyer and stout (2002) proposed the expectancy-valence (ev) model to explicitly account for individual participants' repeated choices in the igt. parameters of the ev model presumably measure different psychological processes that underlie performance on the task, and their values may be used to differentiate individuals across different populations. in the present article, the ev model is extended to include both fixed effects and subject-specific random effects. the mixed-effects ev model fits the nested structure of observations in the igt naturally and provides a unified procedure for parameter estimation and comparisons among groups of populations. we illustrate the utility of the mixed-effects approach with an analysis of gender differences using a real data set. a simulation study was conducted to verify the advantages of this approach."	10.3758/BRM.41.3.657	*Decision Making; *Uncertainty; *Performance; *Models	"The Iowa gambling task (IGT; Bechara, Damasio, Damasio, & Anderson, 1994) was developed to simulate real-life decision making under uncertainty. The task has been widely used to examine possible neurocognitive deficits in normal and clinical populations. Busemeyer and Stout (2002) proposed the expectancy-valence (EV) model to explicitly account for individual participants' repeated choices in the IGT. Parameters of the EV model presumably measure different psychological processes that underlie performance on the task, and their values may be used to differentiate individuals across different populations. In the present article, the EV model is extended to include both fixed effects and subject-specific random effects. The mixed-effects EV model fits the nested structure of observations in the IGT naturally and provides a unified procedure for parameter estimation and comparisons among groups of populations. We illustrate the utility of the mixed-effects approach with an analysis of gender differences using a real data set. A simulation study was conducted to verify the advantages of this approach. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	837	1	2	1	3	3	1	2	0	2	2	2	2	3	3	3	2	3	3	0	0
Comparison of deck- and trial-based approaches to advantageous decision making on the Iowa Gambling Task.	2012	Psychological Assessment	1040-3590	24	2	455-463	"Visagan, Ravindran; Xiang, Ally; Lamar, Melissa"	English	"we compared the original deck-based model of advantageous decision making assessed with the iowa gambling task (igt) with a trial-based approach across behavioral and physiological outcomes in 33 younger adults (15 men, 18 women; 22.2 +/- 3.7 years of age). one administration of the igt with simultaneous measurement of skin conductance responses (scrs) was performed and the two methods applied: (a) the original approach of subtracting disadvantageous picks of decks a and b from advantageous picks of decks c and d and (b) a trial-based approach focused on the financial outcome for each deck leading up to the trial in question. when directly compared, the deck-based approach resulted in a more advantageous behavioral profile than did the trial-based approach. analysis of scr data revealed no significant differences between methods for physiological measurements of scr fluctuations or anticipatory responses to disadvantageous picks. post hoc investigation of the trial-based method revealed deck b contributed to both advantageous and disadvantageous decision making for the majority of participants. when divided by blocks of 20, the number of advantageous to disadvantageous choices reversed as the task progressed despite the total number of picks from deck b remaining high. scr fluctuations for deck b, although not significantly different from the other decks, did show a sharp decline after the first block of 20 and remained below levels for decks c and d toward the end of the task, suggesting that participants may have gained knowledge of the frequency of loss for this deck."	10.1037/a0025932	Models; Gambling; *Decision Making; *Cognitive Processes; Task Analysis	"We compared the original deck-based model of advantageous decision making assessed with the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) with a trial-based approach across behavioral and physiological outcomes in 33 younger adults (15 men, 18 women; 22.2 +/- 3.7 years of age). One administration of the IGT with simultaneous measurement of skin conductance responses (SCRs) was performed and the two methods applied: (a) the original approach of subtracting disadvantageous picks of Decks A and B from advantageous picks of Decks C and D and (b) a trial-based approach focused on the financial outcome for each deck leading up to the trial in question. When directly compared, the deck-based approach resulted in a more advantageous behavioral profile than did the trial-based approach. Analysis of SCR data revealed no significant differences between methods for physiological measurements of SCR fluctuations or anticipatory responses to disadvantageous picks. Post hoc investigation of the trial-based method revealed Deck B contributed to both advantageous and disadvantageous decision making for the majority of participants. When divided by blocks of 20, the number of advantageous to disadvantageous choices reversed as the task progressed despite the total number of picks from Deck B remaining high. SCR fluctuations for Deck B, although not significantly different from the other decks, did show a sharp decline after the first block of 20 and remained below levels for Decks C and D toward the end of the task, suggesting that participants may have gained knowledge of the frequency of loss for this deck. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	743	0	0	0	0	0	5	0	0	3	1	0	1	0	0	1	5	0	4	2	8
Characterizing the cognitive effects of cocaine: A comprehensive review	2013	NEUROSCIENCE AND BIOBEHAVIORAL REVIEWS	0149-7634	37	8	1838-1859	"Spronk, DB; van Wel, JHP; Ramaekers, JG; Verkes, RJ"	English	"understanding the cognitive sequela of repeated cocaine use is a growing area of research and is crucial to the development of cognitive models of addiction. we systematically reviewed all available placebo-controlled and case-controlled studies on the acute and long-term effects of cocaine on cognitive functioning. in order to compare the magnitude of cognitive effects across cognitive domains we conducted several meta-analyses on a subset of data from long-term effect studies. studies on acute cocaine administration suggest enhancement of response inhibition and psychomotor speed, while all other domains appear to be unaffected or not investigated adequately. long-term effects of cocaine show a wide array of deteriorated cognitive functions, indicating that long term cocaine use is characterized by a general cognitive impairment across functions, rather than by specific cognitive deficits. literature on long-term cocaine effects is more substantial than literature on acute effects. this comprehensive review outlines possible dissociations and similarities of acute vs. long-term cocaine effects in the human brain. atherosclerosis after cocaine exposure may underlie cognitive dysfunction, suggesting involvement of multiple brain areas. acute drug studies are important to the future development of addiction models."	10.1016/j.neubiorev.2013.07.003	Acute drug effects; CEREBRAL-BLOOD-FLOW; Cocaine; Cognitive; DECISION-MAKING; DEPENDENT SUBJECTS; DRUG-USE; EVENT-RELATED POTENTIALS; GAMBLING TASK; Humans; IMPAIRED INHIBITORY CONTROL; INTRAVENOUS COCAINE; Long-term drug effects; MONETARY REWARD; Neuroimaging; Neuropsychology; Stimulants; STOP SIGNAL INHIBITION; Substance abuse; Substance dependency	"Understanding the cognitive sequela of repeated cocaine use is a growing area of research and is crucial to the development of cognitive models of addiction. We systematically reviewed all available placebo-controlled and case-controlled studies on the acute and long-term effects of cocaine on cognitive functioning. In order to compare the magnitude of cognitive effects across cognitive domains we conducted several meta-analyses on a subset of data from long-term effect studies. Studies on acute cocaine administration suggest enhancement of response inhibition and psychomotor speed, while all other domains appear to be unaffected or not investigated adequately. Long-term effects of cocaine show a wide array of deteriorated cognitive functions, indicating that long term cocaine use is characterized by a general cognitive impairment across functions, rather than by specific cognitive deficits. Literature on long-term cocaine effects is more substantial than literature on acute effects. This comprehensive review outlines possible dissociations and similarities of acute vs. long-term cocaine effects in the human brain. Atherosclerosis after cocaine exposure may underlie cognitive dysfunction, suggesting involvement of multiple brain areas. Acute drug studies are important to the future development of addiction models. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved."	30	0	1	0	0	4	4	0	0	1	0	3	3	1	1	0	3	1	0	1	5
Nicotine-dopamine-transporter interactions during reward-based decision making	2016	EUROPEAN NEUROPSYCHOPHARMACOLOGY	0924-977X	26	6	938-947	"Kambeitz, J; la Fougre, C; Werner, N; Pogarell, O; Riedel, M; Falkai, P; Ettinger, U"	English	"our everyday-life comprises a multitude of decisions that we take whilst trying to maximize advantageous outcomes, limit risks and update current needs. the cognitive processes that guide decision making as well as the brain circuits they are based on are only poorly understood. numerous studies point to a potential role of dopamine and nicotine in decision making but less is known about their interactions. here, 26 healthy male subjects performed the iowa gambling task (igt) in two sessions following the administration of either nicotine or placebo. striatal dopamine transporter (dat) binding was measured by single-photon emission computed tomography (spect). results indicate that lower dat levels were associated with better performance in the igt (p=0.0004). cognitive modelling analysis using the prospect valence learning (pvl) model indicated that low dat subjects' performance deteriorated following nicotine administration as indicated by an increased learning rate and a decreased response consistency. our results shed light on the neurochemistry underlying reward-based decision making in humans by demonstrating a significant interaction between nicotine and the dat. the observed interaction is consistent with the hypothesized associations between dat expression and extracellular dopamine levels, suggestive of an inverted u-shape relationship between baseline dopamine and magnitude in response to a pro-dopaminergic compound. our findings are of particular interest in the context of psychiatric disorders where aberrant decision making represents a part of the core symptomatology, such as addiction, schizophrenia or depression."	10.1016/j.euroneuro.2016.03.011	AMPHETAMINE; BIPOLAR DISORDER; Cognitive modeling; Computational psychiatry; Iowa Gambling Task; IOWA GAMBLING TASK; learning; LEARNING-MODELS; MICE; PERFORMANCE; Prospect valence; RELEASE; SCHIZOPHRENIA; SMOKING; SPECT; Striatum; VENTRAL STRIATUM	"Our everyday-life comprises a multitude of decisions that we take whilst trying to maximize advantageous outcomes, limit risks and update current needs. The cognitive processes that guide decision making as well as the brain circuits they are based on are only poorly understood. Numerous studies point to a potential role of dopamine and nicotine in decision making but less is known about their interactions. Here, 26 healthy male subjects performed the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) in two sessions following the administration of either nicotine or placebo. Striatal dopamine transporter (DAT) binding was measured by single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). Results indicate that lower DAT levels were associated with better performance in the IGT (p=0.0004). Cognitive modelling analysis using the prospect valence learning (PVL) model indicated that low DAT subjects' performance deteriorated following nicotine administration as indicated by an increased learning rate and a decreased response consistency. Our results shed light on the neurochemistry underlying reward-based decision making in humans by demonstrating a significant interaction between nicotine and the DAT. The observed interaction is consistent with the hypothesized associations between DAT expression and extracellular dopamine levels, suggestive of an inverted U-shape relationship between baseline dopamine and magnitude in response to a pro-dopaminergic compound. Our findings are of particular interest in the context of psychiatric disorders where aberrant decision making represents a part of the core symptomatology, such as addiction, schizophrenia or depression. (C) 2016 Published by Elsevier B.V."	25	0	0	0	0	0	3	0	0	3	0	3	3	0	0	1	1	2	2	3	3
Mirrored Prominent Deck B Phenomenon: Frequent Small Losses Override Infrequent Large Gains in the Inverted Iowa Gambling Task.	2012	PLoS ONE	19326203	7	10	12-Jan	Ching-Hung Lin; Tzu-Jiun Song; Yu-Kai Lin; Yao-Chu Chiu		"since bechara et al. pioneered its development, the iowa gambling task (igt) has been widely applied to elucidate decision behavior and medial prefrontal function. although most decision makers can hunch the final benefits of igt, ventromedial prefrontal lesions generate a myopic choice pattern. additionally, the iowa group developed a revised igt (inverted igt, iigt) to confirm the igt validity. each iigt trial was generated from the trial of igt by multiplying by a ""-"" to create an inverted monetary value. thus, bad decks a and b in the igt become good decks ia and ib in the iigt; additionally, good decks c and d in the igt become bad decks ic and id in the iigt. furthermore, igt possessed mostly the gain trials, and iigt possessed mainly the loss trials. therefore, igt is a frequent-gain--based task, and iigt is a frequent-loss--based task. however, a growing number of igt-related studies have identified confounding factors in igt (i.e., gain-loss frequency), which are demonstrated by the prominent deck b phenomenon (pdb phenomenon). nevertheless, the mirrored pdb phenomenon and guiding power of gain-loss frequency in iigt have seldom been reexamined. this experimental finding supports the prediction based on gain-loss frequency. this study identifies the mirrored pdb phenomenon. frequent small losses override occasional large gains in deck ib of the iigt. learning curve analysis generally supports the phenomenon based on gain-loss frequency rather than final outcome. in terms of iigt and simple versions of iigt, results of this study demonstrate that high-frequency loss, rather than a satisfactory final outcome, dominates the preference of normal decision makers under uncertainty. furthermore, normal subjects prefer ""no immediate punishment"" rather than ""final reward"" under uncertainty."	10.1371/journal.pone.0047202	REWARD (Psychology); UNCERTAINTY; DECISION making; LEARNING; LEARNING curve (Education); PUNISHMENT (Psychology)	"Since Bechara et al. pioneered its development, the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) has been widely applied to elucidate decision behavior and medial prefrontal function. Although most decision makers can hunch the final benefits of IGT, ventromedial prefrontal lesions generate a myopic choice pattern. Additionally, the Iowa group developed a revised IGT (inverted IGT, iIGT) to confirm the IGT validity. Each iIGT trial was generated from the trial of IGT by multiplying by a ""-"" to create an inverted monetary value. Thus, bad decks A and B in the IGT become good decks iA and iB in the iIGT; additionally, good decks C and D in the IGT become bad decks iC and iD in the iIGT. Furthermore, IGT possessed mostly the gain trials, and iIGT possessed mainly the loss trials. Therefore, IGT is a frequent-gain--based task, and iIGT is a frequent-loss--based task. However, a growing number of IGT-related studies have identified confounding factors in IGT (i.e., gain-loss frequency), which are demonstrated by the prominent deck B phenomenon (PDB phenomenon). Nevertheless, the mirrored PDB phenomenon and guiding power of gain-loss frequency in iIGT have seldom been reexamined. This experimental finding supports the prediction based on gain-loss frequency. This study identifies the mirrored PDB phenomenon. Frequent small losses override occasional large gains in deck iB of the iIGT. Learning curve analysis generally supports the phenomenon based on gain-loss frequency rather than final outcome. In terms of iIGT and simple versions of iIGT, results of this study demonstrate that high-frequency loss, rather than a satisfactory final outcome, dominates the preference of normal decision makers under uncertainty. Furthermore, normal subjects prefer ""no immediate punishment"" rather than ""final reward"" under uncertainty. [ABSTRACT FROM AUTHOR]"	2196	0	0	0	0	0	5	0	0	3	1	0	1	0	0	1	5	0	4	2	8
Changes in Loss Sensitivity During Treatment in Concurrent Disorders Inpatients: A Computational Model Approach to Assessing Risky Decision-Making	2022	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHIATRY	1664-0640	12			"Todesco, S; Chao, TM; Schmid, L; Thiessen, KA; Schtz, CG"	English	"backgroundrecent studies have employed computational modeling to characterize deficits in aspects of decision-making not otherwise detected using traditional behavioral task outcomes. while prospect utility-based modeling has shown to differentiate decision-making patterns between users of different drugs, its relevance in the context of treatment has yet to be examined. this study investigated model-based decision-making as it relates to treatment outcome in inpatients with co-occurring mental health and substance use disorders. methods50 patients (mage = 38.5, sd = 11.4; 16f) completed the cambridge gambling task (cgt) within 2 weeks of admission (baseline) and 6 months into treatment (follow-up), and 50 controls (mage = 31.9, sd = 10.0; 25f) completed cgt under a single outpatient session. we evaluated 4 traditional cgt outputs and 5 decisional processes derived from the cumulative model. psychiatric diagnoses and discharge data were retrieved from patient health records. resultsgroups were similar in age, sex, and premorbid iq. differences in years of education were included as covariates across all group comparisons. all patients had >= 1 mental health diagnosis, with 80% having >1 substance use disorder. on the cgt, patients showed greater deliberation time and delay aversion than controls. estimated model parameters revealed higher delayed reward discounting, and lower probability distortion and loss sensitivity in patients relative to controls. from baseline to follow-up, patients (n = 24) showed a decrease in model-derived loss sensitivity and color choice bias. lastly, poorer quality of decision-making and choice consistency, and greater color choice bias independently predicted higher likelihood of treatment dropout, while none were significant in relation to treatment length of stay. conclusionthis is the first study to assess a computational model of decision-making in the context of treatment for concurrent disorders. patients were more impulsive and slower to deliberate choice than controls. while both traditional and computational outcomes predicted treatment adherence in patients, findings suggest computational methods are able to capture treatment-sensitive aspects of decision-making not accessible via traditional further research is needed to confirm findings as well as investigate the relationship between model-based decision-making and post-treatment outcomes."	10.3389/fpsyt.2021.794014	COGNITIVE MODELS; COLOR-VISION; COMORBIDITY; concurrent disorders; decision-making; DEFICITS; DEPENDENT PATIENTS; DRUG; drug use; impulsivity; IMPULSIVITY; mental health; MENTAL-HEALTH; PREVALENCE; SUBSTANCE USE DISORDERS; treatment outcome	"BackgroundRecent studies have employed computational modeling to characterize deficits in aspects of decision-making not otherwise detected using traditional behavioral task outcomes. While prospect utility-based modeling has shown to differentiate decision-making patterns between users of different drugs, its relevance in the context of treatment has yet to be examined. This study investigated model-based decision-making as it relates to treatment outcome in inpatients with co-occurring mental health and substance use disorders. Methods50 patients (Mage = 38.5, SD = 11.4; 16F) completed the Cambridge Gambling Task (CGT) within 2 weeks of admission (baseline) and 6 months into treatment (follow-up), and 50 controls (Mage = 31.9, SD = 10.0; 25F) completed CGT under a single outpatient session. We evaluated 4 traditional CGT outputs and 5 decisional processes derived from the Cumulative Model. Psychiatric diagnoses and discharge data were retrieved from patient health records. ResultsGroups were similar in age, sex, and premorbid IQ. Differences in years of education were included as covariates across all group comparisons. All patients had >= 1 mental health diagnosis, with 80% having >1 substance use disorder. On the CGT, patients showed greater Deliberation Time and Delay Aversion than controls. Estimated model parameters revealed higher Delayed Reward Discounting, and lower Probability Distortion and Loss Sensitivity in patients relative to controls. From baseline to follow-up, patients (n = 24) showed a decrease in model-derived Loss Sensitivity and Color Choice Bias. Lastly, poorer Quality of Decision-Making and Choice Consistency, and greater Color Choice Bias independently predicted higher likelihood of treatment dropout, while none were significant in relation to treatment length of stay. ConclusionThis is the first study to assess a computational model of decision-making in the context of treatment for concurrent disorders. Patients were more impulsive and slower to deliberate choice than controls. While both traditional and computational outcomes predicted treatment adherence in patients, findings suggest computational methods are able to capture treatment-sensitive aspects of decision-making not accessible via traditional methods. Further research is needed to confirm findings as well as investigate the relationship between model-based decision-making and post-treatment outcomes."	12	0	1	2	2	2	2	0	0	1	0	4	4	1	1	0	0	4	1	4	7
Drug Addiction: Updating Actions to Habits to Compulsions Ten Years On.	2016	Annu Rev Psychol	0066-4308	67	0	23-50	"Everitt, Barry; Robbins, Trevor"		": a decade ago, we hypothesized that drug addiction can be viewed as a transition from voluntary, recreational drug use to compulsive drug-seeking habits, neurally underpinned by a transition from prefrontal cortical to striatal control over drug seeking and taking as well as a progression from the ventral to the dorsal striatum. here, in the light of burgeoning, supportive evidence, we reconsider and elaborate this hypothesis, in particular the refinements in our understanding of ventral and dorsal striatal mechanisms underlying goal-directed and habitual drug seeking, the influence of drug-associated pavlovian-conditioned stimuli on drug seeking and relapse, and evidence for impairments in top-down prefrontal cortical inhibitory control over this behavior. we further review animal and human studies that have begun to define etiological factors and individual differences in the propensity to become addicted to drugs, leading to the description of addiction endophenotypes, especially for cocaine addiction. we consider the prospect of novel treatments for addiction that promote abstinence from and relapse to drug use.,"	10.1146/annurev-psych-122414-033457	prefrontal cortex; vulnerability; inhibitory control; insula; endophenotype; striatum	": A decade ago, we hypothesized that drug addiction can be viewed as a transition from voluntary, recreational drug use to compulsive drug-seeking habits, neurally underpinned by a transition from prefrontal cortical to striatal control over drug seeking and taking as well as a progression from the ventral to the dorsal striatum. Here, in the light of burgeoning, supportive evidence, we reconsider and elaborate this hypothesis, in particular the refinements in our understanding of ventral and dorsal striatal mechanisms underlying goal-directed and habitual drug seeking, the influence of drug-associated Pavlovian-conditioned stimuli on drug seeking and relapse, and evidence for impairments in top-down prefrontal cortical inhibitory control over this behavior. We further review animal and human studies that have begun to define etiological factors and individual differences in the propensity to become addicted to drugs, leading to the description of addiction endophenotypes, especially for cocaine addiction. We consider the prospect of novel treatments for addiction that promote abstinence from and relapse to drug use., Copyright (C) 2016 by Annual Reviews, Inc., Palo Alto, California, USA. All Rights Reserved."	1254	0	0	0	0	0	5	0	0	3	1	0	1	1	1	0	3	1	0	2	1
A somatic marker theory of addiction.	2009	Neuropharmacology	0028-3908	56	Suppl1	48-62	"Verdejo-Garcia, Antonio; Bechara, Antoine"	English	"similar to patients with ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmpc) lesions, substance abusers show altered decision-making, characterized by a tendency to choose the immediate reward, at the expense of negative future consequences. the somatic marker model proposes that decision-making depends on neural substrates that regulate homeostasis, emotion and feeling. according to this model, there should be a link between alterations in processing emotions in substance abusers, and their impairments in decision-making. growing evidence from neuroscientific studies indicate that core aspects of addiction may be explained in terms of abnormal emotional/homeostatic guidance of decision-making. behavioral studies have revealed emotional processing and decision-making deficits in substance abusers. neuroimaging studies have shown that altered decision-making in addiction is associated with abnormal functioning of a distributed neural network critical for the processing of emotional information, and the experience of ""craving"", including the vmpc, the amygdala, the striatum, the anterior cingulate cortex, and the insular/somato-sensory cortices, as well as non-specific neurotransmitter systems that modulate activities of neural processes involved in decision-making. the aim of this paper is to review this growing evidence, and to examine the extent to which these studies support a somatic marker theory of addiction. we conclude that there are at least two underlying types of dysfunction where emotional signals (somatic markers) turn in favor of immediate outcomes in addiction: (1) a hyperactivity in the amygdala or impulsive system, which exaggerates the rewarding impact of available incentives, and (2) hypoactivity in the prefrontal cortex or reflective system, which forecasts the long-term consequences of a given action."	10.1016/j.neuropharm.2008.07.035	Emotions; *Decision Making; *Amygdala; *Prefrontal Cortex; *Addiction; *Biopsychosocial Approach; Biological Markers	"Similar to patients with ventromedial prefrontal cortex (VMPC) lesions, substance abusers show altered decision-making, characterized by a tendency to choose the immediate reward, at the expense of negative future consequences. The somatic marker model proposes that decision-making depends on neural substrates that regulate homeostasis, emotion and feeling. According to this model, there should be a link between alterations in processing emotions in substance abusers, and their impairments in decision-making. Growing evidence from neuroscientific studies indicate that core aspects of addiction may be explained in terms of abnormal emotional/homeostatic guidance of decision-making. Behavioral studies have revealed emotional processing and decision-making deficits in substance abusers. Neuroimaging studies have shown that altered decision-making in addiction is associated with abnormal functioning of a distributed neural network critical for the processing of emotional information, and the experience of ""craving"", including the VMPC, the amygdala, the striatum, the anterior cingulate cortex, and the insular/somato-sensory cortices, as well as non-specific neurotransmitter systems that modulate activities of neural processes involved in decision-making. The aim of this paper is to review this growing evidence, and to examine the extent to which these studies support a somatic marker theory of addiction. We conclude that there are at least two underlying types of dysfunction where emotional signals (somatic markers) turn in favor of immediate outcomes in addiction: (1) a hyperactivity in the amygdala or impulsive system, which exaggerates the rewarding impact of available incentives, and (2) hypoactivity in the prefrontal cortex or reflective system, which forecasts the long-term consequences of a given action. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	850	0	1	0	0	4	4	0	0	1	0	3	3	1	1	0	3	1	0	1	1
Neural and psychological mechanisms underlying compulsive drug seeking habits and drug memories - indications for novel treatments of addiction*.	2014	Eur J Neurosci	0953-816X	40	1	2163-2182	"Everitt, Barry"		"this review discusses the evidence for the hypothesis that the development of drug addiction can be understood in terms of interactions between pavlovian and instrumental learning and memory mechanisms in the brain that underlie the seeking and taking of drugs. it is argued that these behaviours initially are goal-directed, but increasingly become elicited as stimulus-response habits by drug-associated conditioned stimuli that are established by pavlovian conditioning. it is further argued that compulsive drug use emerges as the result of a loss of prefrontal cortical inhibitory control over drug seeking habits. data are reviewed that indicate these transitions from use to abuse to addiction depend upon shifts from ventral to dorsal striatal control over behaviour, mediated in part by serial connectivity between the striatum and midbrain dopamine systems. only some individuals lose control over their drug use, and the importance of behavioural impulsivity as a vulnerability trait predicting stimulant abuse and addiction in animals and humans, together with consideration of an emerging neuroendophenotype for addiction are discussed. finally, the potential for developing treatments for addiction is considered in light of the neuropsychological advances that are reviewed, including the possibility of targeting drug memory reconsolidation and extinction to reduce pavlovian influences on drug seeking as a means of promoting abstinence and preventing relapse., : corticostriatal circuitry mediating the influence of drug-associated conditioned stimuli on drug seeking actions and habits. interactions between ventral and dorsal striatum via serial connections with midbrain dopamine neurons mediate the progressive shift to control over drug seeking habits by the dorsal striatum that eventually become compulsive through the loss of top-down inhibitory control by prefrontal cortical areas.,"	10.1111/ejn.12644	cocaine; relapse; striatum; compulsion; habits; reconsolidation	"This review discusses the evidence for the hypothesis that the development of drug addiction can be understood in terms of interactions between Pavlovian and instrumental learning and memory mechanisms in the brain that underlie the seeking and taking of drugs. It is argued that these behaviours initially are goal-directed, but increasingly become elicited as stimulus-response habits by drug-associated conditioned stimuli that are established by Pavlovian conditioning. It is further argued that compulsive drug use emerges as the result of a loss of prefrontal cortical inhibitory control over drug seeking habits. Data are reviewed that indicate these transitions from use to abuse to addiction depend upon shifts from ventral to dorsal striatal control over behaviour, mediated in part by serial connectivity between the striatum and midbrain dopamine systems. Only some individuals lose control over their drug use, and the importance of behavioural impulsivity as a vulnerability trait predicting stimulant abuse and addiction in animals and humans, together with consideration of an emerging neuroendophenotype for addiction are discussed. Finally, the potential for developing treatments for addiction is considered in light of the neuropsychological advances that are reviewed, including the possibility of targeting drug memory reconsolidation and extinction to reduce Pavlovian influences on drug seeking as a means of promoting abstinence and preventing relapse., : Corticostriatal circuitry mediating the influence of drug-associated conditioned stimuli on drug seeking actions and habits. Interactions between ventral and dorsal striatum via serial connections with midbrain dopamine neurons mediate the progressive shift to control over drug seeking habits by the dorsal striatum that eventually become compulsive through the loss of top-down inhibitory control by prefrontal cortical areas., (C) 2014 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd"	1343	0	0	0	0	0	5	0	0	3	1	0	1	1	1	0	3	1	0	2	1
Opposite Effects of Amphetamine Self-administration Experience on Dendritic Spines in the Medial and Orbital Prefrontal Cortex.	2005	Cereb Cortex	1047-3211	15	3	341-348	"Crombag, Hans; Gorny, Grazyna; Li, Yilin; Kolb, Bryan; Robinson, Terry"		"we studied the long-term effects of amphetamine self-administration experience (or sucrose reward training) on dendritic morphology (spine density) in nucleus accumbens (nacc), medial (mpc) and orbital prefrontal cortex (ofc), and hippocampus (ca1 and dentate). independent groups of rats were trained under a continuous schedule of reinforcement to nose-poke for infusions of amphetamine (0.125 mg/kg/inf) or to receive sucrose pellets during 2 h daily test sessions for 14-20 days. one month after the last training session, the brains were collected and processed for golgi-cox staining. we found that: (i) amphetamine self-administration experience selectively increased spine density on medium spiny neurons in the nacc and on pyramidal neurons in the mpc; (ii) in contrast, amphetamine self-administration decreased spine density in the ofc, whereas sucrose-reward training increased spine density; and (iii) both amphetamine self-administration and sucrose-reward experience increased spines in the ca1, but had no effect in the dentate gyrus. thus, amphetamine self-administration experience produces long-lasting and regionally-selective morphological alterations in rat forebrain - alterations that may underlie some of the persistent psychomotor, cognitive and motivational consequences of chronic drug exposure.,"	10.1093/cercor/bhh136	hippocampus; nucleus accumbens; addiction; rat; sensitization; Golgi	"We studied the long-term effects of amphetamine self-administration experience (or sucrose reward training) on dendritic morphology (spine density) in nucleus accumbens (Nacc), medial (MPC) and orbital prefrontal cortex (OFC), and hippocampus (CA1 and dentate). Independent groups of rats were trained under a continuous schedule of reinforcement to nose-poke for infusions of amphetamine (0.125 mg/kg/inf) or to receive sucrose pellets during 2 h daily test sessions for 14-20 days. One month after the last training session, the brains were collected and processed for Golgi-Cox staining. We found that: (i) amphetamine self-administration experience selectively increased spine density on medium spiny neurons in the Nacc and on pyramidal neurons in the MPC; (ii) in contrast, amphetamine self-administration decreased spine density in the OFC, whereas sucrose-reward training increased spine density; and (iii) both amphetamine self-administration and sucrose-reward experience increased spines in the CA1, but had no effect in the dentate gyrus. Thus, amphetamine self-administration experience produces long-lasting and regionally-selective morphological alterations in rat forebrain - alterations that may underlie some of the persistent psychomotor, cognitive and motivational consequences of chronic drug exposure., (C) Copyright Oxford University Press 2005."	1665	0	0	0	1	1	0	0	0	3	1	0	5	0	0	2	1	2	2	5	1
A longitudinal analysis of adolescent decision-making with the Iowa Gambling Task.	2018	Developmental Psychology	0012-1649	54	4	689-702	"Almy, Brandon; Kuskowski, Michael; Malone, Stephen M; Myers, Evan; Luciana, Monica"	English	"many researchers have used the standard iowa gambling task (igt) to assess decision-making in adolescence given increased risk-taking during this developmental period. most studies are cross-sectional and do not observe behavioral trajectories over time, limiting interpretation. this longitudinal study investigated healthy adolescents' and young adults' igt performance across a 10-year span. a total of 189 individuals (aged 9-23 at baseline) completed a baseline session and were followed at 2-year intervals yielding 5 time-points. igt deck contingencies were shuffled over time to reduce practice effects. igt performance (good minus bad decisions) was measured at each assessment point and separated into 3 metrics: overall performance (all blocks), decision-making under ambiguity (blocks 1 and 2), and decision-making under risk (blocks 3, 4, and 5). covariates included estimated intelligence and affective dispositions as measured by the behavioral inhibition and activation system (bis/bas) scales. a linear effect of age yielded the best fit when comparing linear and quadratic effects of age on overall igt performance. age and intelligence positively predicted overall performance, whereas affective approach tendencies (bas) negatively predicted overall performance. practice effects were observed and controlled for. models of ambiguity and risk metrics yielded different patterns of significant predictors. age predicted better performance and affective approach tendencies predicted worse performance for both metrics. intelligence was a significant predictor for risk, but not ambiguity. this longitudinal study extends prior work by showing age-related improvements in reward-based decision-making and associating those improvements with cognitive and affective variables. implications of the results for adolescent development are discussed."	10.1037/dev0000460	Risk Taking; Rewards; Age Differences; Stimulus Ambiguity; *Gambling; *Decision Making; *Adolescent Development; *Intelligence	"Many researchers have used the standard Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) to assess decision-making in adolescence given increased risk-taking during this developmental period. Most studies are cross-sectional and do not observe behavioral trajectories over time, limiting interpretation. This longitudinal study investigated healthy adolescents' and young adults' IGT performance across a 10-year span. A total of 189 individuals (aged 9-23 at baseline) completed a baseline session and were followed at 2-year intervals yielding 5 time-points. IGT deck contingencies were shuffled over time to reduce practice effects. IGT performance (good minus bad decisions) was measured at each assessment point and separated into 3 metrics: overall performance (all blocks), decision-making under ambiguity (blocks 1 and 2), and decision-making under risk (blocks 3, 4, and 5). Covariates included estimated intelligence and affective dispositions as measured by the Behavioral Inhibition and Activation System (BIS/BAS) Scales. A linear effect of age yielded the best fit when comparing linear and quadratic effects of age on overall IGT performance. Age and intelligence positively predicted overall performance, whereas affective approach tendencies (BAS) negatively predicted overall performance. Practice effects were observed and controlled for. Models of ambiguity and risk metrics yielded different patterns of significant predictors. Age predicted better performance and affective approach tendencies predicted worse performance for both metrics. Intelligence was a significant predictor for risk, but not ambiguity. This longitudinal study extends prior work by showing age-related improvements in reward-based decision-making and associating those improvements with cognitive and affective variables. Implications of the results for adolescent development are discussed. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	398	0	1	0	0	4	4	0	0	1	0	3	3	0	0	1	1	2	2	1	3
"""Wanting,"" ""liking,"" and their relation to consciousness."	2016	Journal of Experimental Psychology: Animal Learning and Cognition	2329-8456	42	2	123-140	"Anselme, Patrick; Robinson, Mike J. F"	English	"most animal and human behaviors emanate from goal-directedness and pleasure seeking, suggesting that they are primarily under conscious control. however, ""wanting"" and ""liking"" are believed to be adaptive core subcortical processes working at an unconscious level and responsible for guiding behavior toward appropriate rewards. here we examine whether ""wanting"" is an inherent property of conscious goals and ""liking"" an intrinsic component of conscious feelings. we argue that ""wanting"" and ""liking"" depend on mechanisms acting below the level of consciousness, explaining why individuals often struggle to enhance or refrain their motivations and emotions by means of conscious control. in particular, hyperreactivity of subcortical ""wanting"" systems has been tied to pathological behaviors such as drug addiction and gambling disorder. in addicts, cognitive processes intended to curb drug-seeking wage a constant battle against subcortical urges to take more drug that often ends in relapse following repeated assaults. nevertheless, we suggest that in nonpathological contexts, ""wanting"" and ""liking"" interact with major cognitive processes to guide goal-directed actions."	10.1037/xan0000090	*Rewards; *Dopamine; Incentives; *Addiction; *Consciousness States	"Most animal and human behaviors emanate from goal-directedness and pleasure seeking, suggesting that they are primarily under conscious control. However, ""wanting"" and ""liking"" are believed to be adaptive core subcortical processes working at an unconscious level and responsible for guiding behavior toward appropriate rewards. Here we examine whether ""wanting"" is an inherent property of conscious goals and ""liking"" an intrinsic component of conscious feelings. We argue that ""wanting"" and ""liking"" depend on mechanisms acting below the level of consciousness, explaining why individuals often struggle to enhance or refrain their motivations and emotions by means of conscious control. In particular, hyperreactivity of subcortical ""wanting"" systems has been tied to pathological behaviors such as drug addiction and gambling disorder. In addicts, cognitive processes intended to curb drug-seeking wage a constant battle against subcortical urges to take more drug that often ends in relapse following repeated assaults. Nevertheless, we suggest that in nonpathological contexts, ""wanting"" and ""liking"" interact with major cognitive processes to guide goal-directed actions. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	509	0	0	0	0	0	5	0	0	3	1	0	1	0	0	2	1	2	2	2	1
Performance on the Iowa Gambling Task: From 5 to 89 Years of Age.	2014	J Exp Psychol Gen	0096-3445	143	4	1677-1689	"Beitz, Kevin; Salthouse, Timothy; Davis, Hasker"		": the present study focuses on the role of frequency bias and expected value on the learning processes driving performance on the iowa gambling task (igt) in individuals between 5 and 89 years of age. as in previous studies, children performed poorly on the igt, were increasingly influenced by frequency of losses during learning, and constantly changed their decisions. decision-making strategies changed after childhood from erratic behavior to more consistent strategies that promoted expected value of deck choices. performance deficits as well as a loss frequency bias were found in older adults. however, age-related deficits were distinct between children and older adults. cognitive modeling analysis indicated that older adults were more likely to forget about recent outcomes and were more consistent than children when selecting decks. cognitive ability was associated with a modeling parameter for memory as well as igt performance, suggesting the involvement of a cognitive component in young and middle-aged adult decision making. the interactions of modeling parameters suggested that cognitive changes were the cause of lowered performance in older adults. these analyses suggest critical developments in decision processes during the adolescent years and decline in a cognitive process leading to decision-making deficits after age 60.,"	10.1037/a0035823	Iowa Gambling Task; decision making and cognition; IGT strategy; life span decision making; prospect-valence learning modeling	": The present study focuses on the role of frequency bias and expected value on the learning processes driving performance on the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) in individuals between 5 and 89 years of age. As in previous studies, children performed poorly on the IGT, were increasingly influenced by frequency of losses during learning, and constantly changed their decisions. Decision-making strategies changed after childhood from erratic behavior to more consistent strategies that promoted expected value of deck choices. Performance deficits as well as a loss frequency bias were found in older adults. However, age-related deficits were distinct between children and older adults. Cognitive modeling analysis indicated that older adults were more likely to forget about recent outcomes and were more consistent than children when selecting decks. Cognitive ability was associated with a modeling parameter for memory as well as IGT performance, suggesting the involvement of a cognitive component in young and middle-aged adult decision making. The interactions of modeling parameters suggested that cognitive changes were the cause of lowered performance in older adults. These analyses suggest critical developments in decision processes during the adolescent years and decline in a cognitive process leading to decision-making deficits after age 60., (C) 2014 by the American Psychological Association"	1364	0	0	0	0	0	5	0	0	3	1	0	1	4	0	4	5	0	6	2	8
Cognitive choice modeling.	2021	Cognitive choice modeling.	9780262044967 (Hardcover)		"Aerts, D. (2009). Quantum structure in cognition. Journal of Mathematical Psychology, 53(5), 314-348. 2009-13400-001. https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jmp.2009.04.005"		"Wang, Zheng Joyce; Busemeyer, Jerome R"	English	"this book introduces a new cognitive modeling approach to the study of human choice behavior. integrating recent research from both cognitive science and choice behavior, it provides the groundwork for the emerging interdisciplinary field of cognitive choice modeling. the book focuses on individual choice behavior and presents a survey of traditional decision science covering utility theory and random utility models. it reviews both basic theory and empirical research into these two classes of models. signal detection theory is used to decide an action based on a sample of evidence about an unknown state of nature. the theory is designed to account for both choice probability and confidence in choice behavior. the book surveys the theory and research on sequential sampling models, which describe and predict not only choice and confidence, but also the time it takes to make a choice. it describes the theory behind and research on reinforcement learning models, reviews research comparing description-versus experience-based decisions, and discusses new theoretical work comparing model-free and model-based learning theories. after presenting the behavioral and cognitive foundations of choice, the book provides an overview of the progress being made toward understanding the relations between cognitive choice models and the neural mechanisms underlying choice behavior. finally, it examines an entirely new and different perspective for modeling choice behavior based on quantum probability theory. in many ways, quantum probability provides a generalization of classical probability. the book ends with some speculation about the directions of future research on cognitive choice modeling. the book is organized with a theme that builds from simple deterministic utility theories to more sophisticated static random utility theories, and then moves to examining more complex stochastic sequential sampling and reinforcement learning processes."	10.7551/mitpress/10469.001.0001	*Choice Behavior; *Cognitive Processes; Reinforcement; *Cognitive Science; *Learning Theory; *Utility Theory; Empirical Methods; Neural Networks; Probability	"This book introduces a new cognitive modeling approach to the study of human choice behavior. Integrating recent research from both cognitive science and choice behavior, it provides the groundwork for the emerging interdisciplinary field of cognitive choice modeling. The book focuses on individual choice behavior and presents a survey of traditional decision science covering utility theory and random utility models. It reviews both basic theory and empirical research into these two classes of models. Signal detection theory is used to decide an action based on a sample of evidence about an unknown state of nature. The theory is designed to account for both choice probability and confidence in choice behavior. The book surveys the theory and research on sequential sampling models, which describe and predict not only choice and confidence, but also the time it takes to make a choice. It describes the theory behind and research on reinforcement learning models, reviews research comparing description-versus experience-based decisions, and discusses new theoretical work comparing model-free and model-based learning theories. After presenting the behavioral and cognitive foundations of choice, the book provides an overview of the progress being made toward understanding the relations between cognitive choice models and the neural mechanisms underlying choice behavior. Finally, it examines an entirely new and different perspective for modeling choice behavior based on quantum probability theory. In many ways, quantum probability provides a generalization of classical probability. The book ends with some speculation about the directions of future research on cognitive choice modeling. The book is organized with a theme that builds from simple deterministic utility theories to more sophisticated static random utility theories, and then moves to examining more complex stochastic sequential sampling and reinforcement learning processes. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	219	1	2	1	3	3	1	2	0	2	2	2	2	3	3	3	2	3	3	0	0
Age and impulsive behavior in drug addiction: A review of past research and future directions.	2018	Pharmacol Biochem Behav	0091-3057	164	"p3q, 0367050"	106-117	"Argyriou, Evangelia; Um, Miji; Carron, Claire; Cyders, Melissa"		": impulsive behavior is implicated in the initiation, maintenance, and relapse of drug-seeking behaviors involved in drug addiction. research shows that changes in impulsive behavior across the lifespan contribute to drug use and addiction. the goal of this review is to examine existing research on the relationship between impulsive behavior and drug use across the lifespan and to recommend directions for future research. three domains of impulsive behavior are explored in this review: impulsive behavior-related personality traits, delay discounting, and prepotent response inhibition. first, we present previous research on these three domains of impulsive behavior and drug use across developmental stages. then, we discuss how changes in impulsive behavior across the lifespan are implicated in the progression of drug use and addiction. finally, we discuss the relatively limited attention given to middle-to-older adults in the current literature, consider the validity of the measures used to assess impulsive behavior in middle-to-older adulthood, and suggest recommendations for future research., highlights:, the relationship between impulsive behavior and drug use across the lifespan is reviewed., age differences in impulsive behavior across the lifespan exist and influence drug use., impulsive behavior and drug use in middle-to-older adulthood is often overlooked., recommendations for future research are discussed.,"	10.1016/j.pbb.2017.07.013	Addiction; Delay discounting; Drug use; Impulsive behavior; Prepotent response inhibition; UPPS-P	": Impulsive behavior is implicated in the initiation, maintenance, and relapse of drug-seeking behaviors involved in drug addiction. Research shows that changes in impulsive behavior across the lifespan contribute to drug use and addiction. The goal of this review is to examine existing research on the relationship between impulsive behavior and drug use across the lifespan and to recommend directions for future research. Three domains of impulsive behavior are explored in this review: impulsive behavior-related personality traits, delay discounting, and prepotent response inhibition. First, we present previous research on these three domains of impulsive behavior and drug use across developmental stages. Then, we discuss how changes in impulsive behavior across the lifespan are implicated in the progression of drug use and addiction. Finally, we discuss the relatively limited attention given to middle-to-older adults in the current literature, consider the validity of the measures used to assess impulsive behavior in middle-to-older adulthood, and suggest recommendations for future research., Highlights:, * The relationship between impulsive behavior and drug use across the lifespan is reviewed., * Age differences in impulsive behavior across the lifespan exist and influence drug use., * Impulsive behavior and drug use in middle-to-older adulthood is often overlooked., * Recommendations for future research are discussed., (C) 2018Elsevier, Inc."	1202	0	0	0	1	1	0	0	0	3	1	0	1	0	0	2	1	2	2	5	1
Competing neurobehavioral decision systems and the neuroeconomics of craving in opioid addiction.	2014	Neuroscience & Neuroeconomicss	22303561	3		87	"Jarmolowicz, DP; Sofis, M; Martin, L"		"Craving is typically thought of as a classically conditioned response characterized by an elevated mesolimbic dopamine response to drug-related stimuli. Although this definition has spurred considerable research, the clinical impact of the research conducted has been less robust. The current review takes a more contemporary approach by conceptualizing craving as the breakdown of executive function and relative strengthening of the limbic system, occurring in the presence of conditioned cues, leading to a maladaptive craving response (ie, an increased likelihood of drug consumption). Working from this framework, the present review focuses on four issues in drug craving research: pivotal findings and limitations of cue-reactivity and neurocognitive tasks; two main processes of craving that include self-control and reward-based explanations; integration of neuroeconomic approaches to craving; and the theoretical implications and future directions of drug craving research."	10.2147/NAN.S38866	"craving, competing decision systems, executive function, loss of control, substance abuse"		2130	0	0	0	1	1	0	0	0	3	1	0	1	0	0	2	1	2	2	5	1
Deficits in behavioural inhibition in substance abuse and addiction: A meta-analysis.	2014	Drug and Alcohol Dependence	0376-8716	145	"Albrecht, D.S., Kareken, D.A., Christian, B.T., Dzemidzic, M., & Yoder, K.K. (2014). Cortical dopamine release during a behavioral response inhibition task. Synapse, 68, 266-274. https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/24677429 https://dx.doi.org/10.1002/syn.21736 2014-12639-005."	Jan-33	"Smith, Janette L; Mattick, Richard P; Jamadar, Sharna D; Iredale, Jaimi M"	English	"deficits in behavioural inhibitory control are attracting increasing attention as a factor behind the development and maintenance of substance dependence. however, evidence for such a deficit is varied in the literature. here, we synthesised published results to determine whether inhibitory ability is reliably impaired in substance users compared to controls. the meta-analysis used fixed-effects models to integrate results from 97 studies that compared groups with heavy substance use or addiction-like behaviours with healthy control participants on two experimental paradigms commonly used to assess response inhibition: the go/nogo task, and the stop-signal task (sst). the primary measures of interest were commission errors to nogo stimuli and stop-signal reaction time in the sst. additionally, we examined omission errors to go stimuli, and reaction time in both tasks. because inhibition is more difficult when inhibition is required infrequently, we considered papers with rare and equiprobable nogo stimuli separately. inhibitory deficits were apparent for heavy use/dependence on cocaine, mdma, methamphetamine, tobacco, and alcohol (and, to a lesser extent, non-dependent heavy drinkers), and in pathological gamblers. on the other hand, no evidence for an inhibitory deficit was observed for opioids or cannabis, and contradictory evidence was observed for internet addiction. the results are generally consistent with the view that substance use disorders and addiction-like behavioural disorders are associated with impairments in inhibitory control. implications for treatment of substance use are discussed, along with suggestions for future research arising from the limitations of the extant literature."	10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2014.08.009	*Response Inhibition; *Drug Addiction; *Drug Abuse; Gambling Disorder; Behavioral Inhibition	"Aims: Deficits in behavioural inhibitory control are attracting increasing attention as a factor behind the development and maintenance of substance dependence. However, evidence for such a deficit is varied in the literature. Here, we synthesised published results to determine whether inhibitory ability is reliably impaired in substance users compared to controls. Methods: The meta-analysis used fixed-effects models to integrate results from 97 studies that compared groups with heavy substance use or addiction-like behaviours with healthy control participants on two experimental paradigms commonly used to assess response inhibition: the Go/NoGo task, and the Stop-Signal Task (SST). The primary measures of interest were commission errors to NoGo stimuli and stop-signal reaction time in the SST. Additionally, we examined omission errors to Go stimuli, and reaction time in both tasks. Because inhibition is more difficult when inhibition is required infrequently, we considered papers with rare and equiprobable NoGo stimuli separately. Results: Inhibitory deficits were apparent for heavy use/dependence on cocaine, MDMA, methamphetamine, tobacco, and alcohol (and, to a lesser extent, non-dependent heavy drinkers), and in pathological gamblers. On the other hand, no evidence for an inhibitory deficit was observed for opioids or cannabis, and contradictory evidence was observed for internet addiction. Conclusions: The results are generally consistent with the view that substance use disorders and addiction-like behavioural disorders are associated with impairments in inhibitory control. Implications for treatment of substance use are discussed, along with suggestions for future research arising from the limitations of the extant literature. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	629	0	1	2	2	2	2	0	0	1	0	4	4	1	1	0	0	4	1	8	7
Neuropsychological functioning in opioid use disorder: A research synthesis and meta-analysis.	2019	The American Journal of Drug and Alcohol Abuse	0095-2990	45	1	25-Nov	"Wollman, Scott C; Hauson, Alexander O; Hall, Matthew G; Connors, Eric J; Allen, Kenneth E; Stern, Mark J; Stephan, Rick A; Kimmel, Christine L; Sarkissians, Sharis; Barlet, Brianna D; Flora-Tostado, Christopher"	English	"research has demonstrated that patients with opioid use disorders (oud; including both opioid abuse and/or dependence) have poorer neuropsychological functioning compared to healthy controls; however, the pattern and robustness of the findings remain unknown. this study meta-analyzed the results from previous research examining the neuropsychological deficits associated with opioids across 14 neurocognitive domains. method: articles comparing patients with oud to healthy controls were selected based on detailed inclusion/exclusion criteria and variables of interest were coded. in total, 61 studies were selected for the analyses. these consisted of 2580 patients with oud and 2102 healthy control participants (15.9% female). drug-related variables were analyzed as potential moderators. the largest effect size difference in neuropsychological performance was observed in complex psychomotor ability. with the exception of the motor and processing speed domains, which showed no group differences, small-to-medium effect sizes were associated with all neurocognitive domains examined. meta-regression revealed that increases in the length of abstinence were associated with decreases in effect sizes of the complex psychomotor domain. additionally, attentional ability predicted effect size differences in executive functioning as well as verbal memory ability. although the majority of meta-analyzed studies demonstrated significant differences between patients with oud and controls, the average raw scores for patients with oud in these studies typically fell within the normal range. conclusion: the pattern of neuropsychological performance among patients with oud appears to reflect mild generalized cognitive dysfunction, with a large effect in complex psychomotor abilities."	10.1080/00952990.2018.1517262	*Neurocognition; *Cognitive Ability; *Opioid Use Disorder	"Background: Research has demonstrated that patients with opioid use disorders (OUD; including both opioid abuse and/or dependence) have poorer neuropsychological functioning compared to healthy controls; however, the pattern and robustness of the findings remain unknown. Objectives: This study meta-analyzed the results from previous research examining the neuropsychological deficits associated with opioids across 14 neurocognitive domains. Method: Articles comparing patients with OUD to healthy controls were selected based on detailed inclusion/exclusion criteria and variables of interest were coded. In total, 61 studies were selected for the analyses. These consisted of 2580 patients with OUD and 2102 healthy control participants (15.9% female). Drug-related variables were analyzed as potential moderators. Results: The largest effect size difference in neuropsychological performance was observed in complex psychomotor ability. With the exception of the motor and processing speed domains, which showed no group differences, small-to-medium effect sizes were associated with all neurocognitive domains examined. Meta-regression revealed that increases in the length of abstinence were associated with decreases in effect sizes of the complex psychomotor domain. Additionally, attentional ability predicted effect size differences in executive functioning as well as verbal memory ability. Although the majority of meta-analyzed studies demonstrated significant differences between patients with OUD and controls, the average raw scores for patients with OUD in these studies typically fell within the normal range. Conclusion: The pattern of neuropsychological performance among patients with OUD appears to reflect mild generalized cognitive dysfunction, with a large effect in complex psychomotor abilities. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	334	0	0	0	0	0	5	0	0	3	1	0	1	0	0	2	3	2	2	2	5
Dysfunction of the prefrontal cortex in addiction: neuroimaging findings and clinical implications.	2011	Nature Reviews Neuroscience	1471003X	12	11	652-669	"Goldstein, Rita Z.; Volkow, Nora D."		"the loss of control over drug intake that occurs in addiction was initially believed to result from disruption of subcortical reward circuits. however, imaging studies in addictive behaviours have identified a key involvement of the prefrontal cortex (pfc) both through its regulation of limbic reward regions and its involvement in higher-order executive function (for example, self-control, salience attribution and awareness). this review focuses on functional neuroimaging studies conducted in the past decade that have expanded our understanding of the involvement of the pfc in drug addiction. disruption of the pfc in addiction underlies not only compulsive drug taking but also accounts for the disadvantageous behaviours that are associated with addiction and the erosion of free will."	10.1038/nrn3119	SUBSTANCE abuse; PREFRONTAL cortex; DRUG addiction; BRAIN imaging; FREE will & determinism; SELF-control	"The loss of control over drug intake that occurs in addiction was initially believed to result from disruption of subcortical reward circuits. However, imaging studies in addictive behaviours have identified a key involvement of the prefrontal cortex (PFC) both through its regulation of limbic reward regions and its involvement in higher-order executive function (for example, self-control, salience attribution and awareness). This Review focuses on functional neuroimaging studies conducted in the past decade that have expanded our understanding of the involvement of the PFC in drug addiction. Disruption of the PFC in addiction underlies not only compulsive drug taking but also accounts for the disadvantageous behaviours that are associated with addiction and the erosion of free will. [ABSTRACT FROM AUTHOR]"	2222	0	1	0	0	4	4	0	0	1	0	3	3	1	1	0	3	1	0	1	1
A cultural study on decision making: Performance differences on the Iowa Gambling Task between selected groups of Brazilians and Americans.	2010	Psychology & Neuroscience	1984-3054	3	1	101-107	"Bakos, Daniela Schneider; Denburg, Natalie; Fonseca, Rochele Paz; Parente, Maria Alice de Mattos Pimenta"	English	"this study compared the performance of selected groups of brazilian and american individuals on the iowa gambling task (igt). the sample was composed of 70 brazilian and american individuals of both genders, divided into two groups of young and older adults. the two groups of brazilians were composed of 10 young adults, aged 25 to 41 years, and 25 older adults, aged 60 to 75 years. the two groups of americans were composed of 10 young adults, aged 28 to 39 years, and 25 older adults, aged 60 to 76 years. a two-way analysis of variance revealed differences in performance between brazilian and american participants, regardless of age group (country, p = .001; age group, p = .134; country vs. age group, p = .291). analyses of variance using age group and country as main factors did not reveal any difference between the two national groups with regard to the learning achieved during the task (block, p < .001; age group, p = .063; country, p = .086). the results suggest that culture, represented by the country of origin, influences the performance of individuals on the igt, demonstrating the importance of validating an instrument for each cultural group on which it is used."	10.3922/j.psns.2010.1.013	*Gambling; *Decision Making; *Cross Cultural Differences; *Measurement	"This study compared the performance of selected groups of Brazilian and American individuals on the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT). The sample was composed of 70 Brazilian and American individuals of both genders, divided into two groups of young and older adults. The two groups of Brazilians were composed of 10 young adults, aged 25 to 41 years, and 25 older adults, aged 60 to 75 years. The two groups of Americans were composed of 10 young adults, aged 28 to 39 years, and 25 older adults, aged 60 to 76 years. A two-way analysis of variance revealed differences in performance between Brazilian and American participants, regardless of age group (country, p = .001; age group, p = .134; country vs. age group, p = .291). Analyses of variance using age group and country as main factors did not reveal any difference between the two national groups with regard to the learning achieved during the task (block, p < .001; age group, p = .063; country, p = .086). The results suggest that culture, represented by the country of origin, influences the performance of individuals on the IGT, demonstrating the importance of validating an instrument for each cultural group on which it is used. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2024 APA, all rights reserved)"	790	0	0	0	0	0	5	0	0	3	1	0	1	4	0	4	5	0	6	2	8
Machine-learning identifies substance-specific behavioral markers for opiate and stimulant dependence.	2016	Drug and Alcohol Dependence	0376-8716	161	"Ahn, W.-Y., Kishida, K.T., Gu, X., Lohrenz, T., Harvey, A., Alford, J.R., Smith, K.B., Yaffe, G., Hibbing, J.R., Dayan, P., & Montague, P.R. (2014). Nonpolitical images evoke neural predictors of political ideology. Curr. Biol. 24, 2693-2699 https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.cub.2014.09.050 https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/25447997 https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.cub.2014.09.050"	247-257	"Ahn, Woo-Young; Vassileva, Jasmin"	English	"recent animal and human studies reveal distinct cognitive and neurobiological differences between opiate and stimulant addictions; however, our understanding of the common and specific effects of these two classes of drugs remains limited due to the high rates of polysubstance-dependence among drug users. the goal of the current study was to identify multivariate substance-specific markers classifying heroin dependence (hd) and amphetamine dependence (ad), by using machine-learning approaches. participants included 39 amphetamine mono-dependent, 44 heroin mono-dependent, 58 polysubstance dependent, and 81 non-substance dependent individuals. the majority of substance dependent participants were in protracted abstinence. we used demographic, personality (trait impulsivity, trait psychopathy, aggression, sensation seeking), psychiatric (attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, conduct disorder, antisocial personality disorder, psychopathy, anxiety, depression), and neurocognitive impulsivity measures (delay discounting, go/no-go, stop signal, immediate memory, balloon analogue risk, cambridge gambling, and iowa gambling tasks) as predictors in a machine-learning algorithm. the machine-learning approach revealed substance-specific multivariate profiles that classified hd and ad in new samples with high degree of accuracy. out of 54 predictors, psychopathy was the only classifier common to both types of addiction. important dissociations emerged between factors classifying hd and ad, which often showed opposite patterns among individuals with hd and ad. these results suggest that different mechanisms may underlie hd and ad, challenging the unitary account of drug addiction. this line of work may shed light on the development of standardized and cost-efficient clinical diagnostic tests and facilitate the development of individualized prevention and intervention programs for hd and ad."	10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2016.02.008	Heroin; Drug Abuse; Addiction; *Machine Learning; *Opiates; Impulsiveness; *Drug Dependency; *CNS Stimulating Drugs	"Background: Recent animal and human studies reveal distinct cognitive and neurobiological differences between opiate and stimulant addictions; however, our understanding of the common and specific effects of these two classes of drugs remains limited due to the high rates of polysubstance-dependence among drug users. Methods: The goal of the current study was to identify multivariate substance-specific markers classifying heroin dependence (HD) and amphetamine dependence (AD), by using machine-learning approaches. Participants included 39 amphetamine mono-dependent, 44 heroin mono-dependent, 58 polysubstance dependent, and 81 non-substance dependent individuals. The majority of substance dependent participants were in protracted abstinence. We used demographic, personality (trait impulsivity, trait psychopathy, aggression, sensation seeking), psychiatric (attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, conduct disorder, antisocial personality disorder, psychopathy, anxiety, depression), and neurocognitive impulsivity measures (Delay Discounting, Go/No-Go, Stop Signal, Immediate Memory, Balloon Analogue Risk, Cambridge Gambling, and Iowa Gambling tasks) as predictors in a machine-learning algorithm. Results: The machine-learning approach revealed substance-specific multivariate profiles that classified HD and AD in new samples with high degree of accuracy. Out of 54 predictors, psychopathy was the only classifier common to both types of addiction. Important dissociations emerged between factors classifying HD and AD, which often showed opposite patterns among individuals with HD and AD. Conclusions: These results suggest that different mechanisms may underlie HD and AD, challenging the unitary account of drug addiction. This line of work may shed light on the development of standardized and cost-efficient clinical diagnostic tests and facilitate the development of individualized prevention and intervention programs for HD and AD. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	496	0	1	2	2	2	2	0	0	1	0	4	4	1	1	0	0	4	1	8	7
Stages of dysfunctional decision-making in addiction.	2018	Pharmacol Biochem Behav	0091-3057	164	"p3q, 0367050"	99-105	" chong, trevor;  chong, trevor t.-j;  london, edythe;  london, edythe d;  stout, julie;  stout, julie c;  yucel, murat; verdejo-garcia, antonio"		": drug use is a choice with immediate positive outcomes, but long-term negative consequences. thus, the repeated use of drugs in the face of negative consequences suggests dysfunction in the cognitive mechanisms underpinning decision-making. this cognitive dysfunction can be mapped into three stages: the formation of preferences involving valuation of decision options; choice implementation including motivation, self-regulation and inhibitory processes; and feedback processing implicating reinforcement learning. this article reviews behavioral studies that have examined alterations in these three stages of decision-making in people with substance use disorders. relative to healthy individuals, those with alcohol, cannabis, stimulant and opioid use disorders value risky options more highly during the formation of preferences; have a greater appetite for superficially attractive rewards during choice implementation; and are both more efficient in learning from rewards and less efficient in learning from losses during feedback processing. these observed decision-making deficits are most likely due to both premorbid factors and drug-induced effects. because decision-making deficits have been prospectively associated with a greater risk of drug relapse, we advocate for greater research on modulating the component stages that give rise to dysfunctional decision-making in disorders of addiction., highlights:, substance use disorders (sud) linked to decision-making alterations., people with sud have higher valuation of risky options with reward., people with sud more likely to enact choices based on appealing rewards, people with sud learn less from punishment or history of reinforcement., * treatment research on decision-making remediation therapies needed.,"	10.1016/j.pbb.2017.02.003	 *addiction;  *cognitive ability; *decision making	": Drug use is a choice with immediate positive outcomes, but long-term negative consequences. Thus, the repeated use of drugs in the face of negative consequences suggests dysfunction in the cognitive mechanisms underpinning decision-making. This cognitive dysfunction can be mapped into three stages: the formation of preferences involving valuation of decision options; choice implementation including motivation, self-regulation and inhibitory processes; and feedback processing implicating reinforcement learning. This article reviews behavioral studies that have examined alterations in these three stages of decision-making in people with substance use disorders. Relative to healthy individuals, those with alcohol, cannabis, stimulant and opioid use disorders value risky options more highly during the formation of preferences; have a greater appetite for superficially attractive rewards during choice implementation; and are both more efficient in learning from rewards and less efficient in learning from losses during feedback processing. These observed decision-making deficits are most likely due to both premorbid factors and drug-induced effects. Because decision-making deficits have been prospectively associated with a greater risk of drug relapse, we advocate for greater research on modulating the component stages that give rise to dysfunctional decision-making in disorders of addiction., Highlights:, * Substance use disorders (SUD) linked to decision-making alterations., * People with SUD have higher valuation of risky options with reward., * People with SUD more likely to enact choices based on appealing rewards, * People with SUD learn less from punishment or history of reinforcement., * Treatment research on decision-making remediation therapies needed., (C) 2018Elsevier, Inc."	2919	0	1	2	2	2	2	0	0	1	0	4	4	1	1	0	0	4	1	4	7
Cannabis and cognitive dysfunction: Parallels with endophenotypes of schizophrenia?	2007	J Psychiatry Neurosci	1180-4882	32	1	30-52	"Solowij, Nadia; Michie, Patricia"		"currently, there is a lot of interest in cannabis use as a risk factor for the development of schizophrenia. cognitive dysfunction associated with long-term or heavy cannabis use is similar in many respects to the cognitive endophenotypes that have been proposed as vulnerability markers of schizophrenia. in this overview, we examine the similarities between these in the context of the neurobiology underlying cognitive dysfunction, particularly implicating the endogenous cannabinoid system, which plays a significant role in attention, learning and memory, and in general, inhibitory regulatory mechanisms in the brain. closer examination of the cognitive deficits associated with specific parameters of cannabis use and interactions with neurodevelopmental stages and neural substrates will better inform our understanding of the nature of the association between cannabis use and psychosis. the theoretical and clinical significance of further research in this field is in enhancing our understanding of underlying pathophysiology and improving the provision of treatments for substance use and mental illness.,"		schizophrenia; cannabis; endophenotypes; endocannabinoids; cognitive dysfunction	"Currently, there is a lot of interest in cannabis use as a risk factor for the development of schizophrenia. Cognitive dysfunction associated with long-term or heavy cannabis use is similar in many respects to the cognitive endophenotypes that have been proposed as vulnerability markers of schizophrenia. In this overview, we examine the similarities between these in the context of the neurobiology underlying cognitive dysfunction, particularly implicating the endogenous cannabinoid system, which plays a significant role in attention, learning and memory, and in general, inhibitory regulatory mechanisms in the brain. Closer examination of the cognitive deficits associated with specific parameters of cannabis use and interactions with neurodevelopmental stages and neural substrates will better inform our understanding of the nature of the association between cannabis use and psychosis. The theoretical and clinical significance of further research in this field is in enhancing our understanding of underlying pathophysiology and improving the provision of treatments for substance use and mental illness., (C) 2007 Canadian Medical Association; Association medicale canadienne"	1622	0	1	0	0	4	4	1	1	0	3	1	0	2	2	5	4	5	5	1	2
"Smokers' brains compute, but ignore, a fictive error signal in a sequential investment task."	2008	Nature Neuroscience	10976256	11	4	514-520	"Chiu, Pearl H.; Lohrenz, Terry M.; Montague, P. Read"		"addicted individuals pursue substances of abuse even in the clear presence of positive outcomes that may be foregone and negative outcomes that may occur. computational models of addiction depict the addicted state as a feature of a valuation disease, where drug-induced reward prediction error signals steer decisions toward continued drug use. related models admit the possibility that valuation and choice are also directed by 'fictive' outcomes (outcomes that have not been experienced) that possess their own detectable error signals. we hypothesize that, in addiction, anomalies in these fictive error signals contribute to the diminished influence of potential consequences. using a simple investment game and functional magnetic resonance imaging in chronic cigarette smokers, we measured neural and behavioral responses to error signals derived from actual experience and from fictive outcomes. in nonsmokers, both fictive and experiential error signals predicted subjects' choices and possessed distinct neural correlates. in chronic smokers, choices were not guided by error signals derived from what might have happened, despite ongoing and robust neural correlates of these fictive errors. these data provide human neuroimaging support for computational models of addiction and suggest the addition of fictive learning signals to reinforcement learning accounts of drug dependence."	10.1038/nn2067	DRUG abuse; LOGICAL prediction; CIGARETTE smokers; ERROR; NICOTINE addiction	"Addicted individuals pursue substances of abuse even in the clear presence of positive outcomes that may be foregone and negative outcomes that may occur. Computational models of addiction depict the addicted state as a feature of a valuation disease, where drug-induced reward prediction error signals steer decisions toward continued drug use. Related models admit the possibility that valuation and choice are also directed by 'fictive' outcomes (outcomes that have not been experienced) that possess their own detectable error signals. We hypothesize that, in addiction, anomalies in these fictive error signals contribute to the diminished influence of potential consequences. Using a simple investment game and functional magnetic resonance imaging in chronic cigarette smokers, we measured neural and behavioral responses to error signals derived from actual experience and from fictive outcomes. In nonsmokers, both fictive and experiential error signals predicted subjects' choices and possessed distinct neural correlates. In chronic smokers, choices were not guided by error signals derived from what might have happened, despite ongoing and robust neural correlates of these fictive errors. These data provide human neuroimaging support for computational models of addiction and suggest the addition of fictive learning signals to reinforcement learning accounts of drug dependence. [ABSTRACT FROM AUTHOR]"	2304	0	1	0	0	4	4	0	0	1	0	3	3	1	1	0	1	1	0	1	1
Altered risk-related processing in substance users: Imbalance of pain and gain.	2013	Drug and Alcohol Dependence	0376-8716	132	2-Jan	13-21	"Gowin, Joshua L; Mackey, Scott; Paulus, Martin P"	English	"substance use disorders (suds) can be conceptualized as a form of risk-taking behavior with the potential for highly aversive outcomes such as health or legal problems. risky decision-making likely draws upon several related brain processes involved in estimations of value and risk, executive control, and emotional processing. suds may result from a dysfunction in one or more of these cognitive processes. we performed a systematic literature review of functional neuroimaging studies examining risk-related decision making in individuals with suds. a quantitative meta-analysis tool (gingerale) and qualitative approach was used to summarize the imaging meta-analysis findings indicate that individuals with suds exhibit differences in neural activity relative to healthy controls during risk-taking in the anterior cingulate cortex, orbitofrontal cortex, dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, striatum, insula, and somatosensory cortex. in addition, a qualitative review of the literature suggests that individuals with suds may have altered function in the amygdala and ventromedial prefrontal cortex. the neuroimaging literature reveals that several neural substrates involved in the computation of risk may function suboptimally in suds. future research is warranted to elucidate which computational processes are affected, whether dysfunctional risk-related processing recovers with sobriety, and whether different drugs of abuse have specific effects on risk-taking."	10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2013.03.019	Cognitive Processes; *Risk Taking; *Drug Abuse; Substance Use Disorder	"Background: Substance use disorders (SUDs) can be conceptualized as a form of risk-taking behavior with the potential for highly aversive outcomes such as health or legal problems. Risky decision-making likely draws upon several related brain processes involved in estimations of value and risk, executive control, and emotional processing. SUDs may result from a dysfunction in one or more of these cognitive processes. Methods: We performed a systematic literature review of functional neuroimaging studies examining risk-related decision making in individuals with SUDs. A quantitative meta-analysis tool (GingerALE) and qualitative approach was used to summarize the imaging results. Results: Meta-analysis findings indicate that individuals with SUDs exhibit differences in neural activity relative to healthy controls during risk-taking in the anterior cingulate cortex, orbitofrontal cortex, dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, striatum, insula, and somatosensory cortex. In addition, a qualitative review of the literature suggests that individuals with SUDs may have altered function in the amygdala and ventromedial prefrontal cortex. Conclusions: The neuroimaging literature reveals that several neural substrates involved in the computation of risk may function suboptimally in SUDs. Future research is warranted to elucidate which computational processes are affected, whether dysfunctional risk-related processing recovers with sobriety, and whether different drugs of abuse have specific effects on risk-taking. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	699	0	1	2	2	2	2	0	0	1	0	4	4	1	1	0	0	4	1	4	7
Older Adults as Adaptive Decision Makers: Evidence From the Iowa Gambling Task.	2005	Psychology and Aging	0882-7974	20	2	220-225	"Wood, Stacey; Busemeyer, Jerome; Koling, Andreas; Cox, Cathy R; Davis, Hasker"	English	"older adults process emotional information differently than younger adults and may demonstrate less of a negativity bias on cognitive tasks. the iowa gambling task designed by a. bechara, h. damasio, d. tranel, and a. r. damasio (1997) has been used to examine the integration of emotion and cognition in a risky-choice decision task and may give insight into differences in the decision-making strategies in younger and older adults. eighty-eight younger adults (18-34 years) and 67 older adults (65-88 years) completed the iowa gambling task. using a theoretical decomposition of the task designed by j. r. busemeyer and j. c. stout (2002), the authors found that both groups were successful at solving the task but used very different strategies that reflected each group's strength. for younger adults, that strength was learning and memory. for older adults, that strength was an accurate representation of wins and losses (valence)."	10.1037/0882-7974.20.2.220	Age Differences; *Gambling; *Decision Making; *Cognition; *Emotions; *Aging	"Older adults process emotional information differently than younger adults and may demonstrate less of a negativity bias on cognitive tasks. The Iowa Gambling Task designed by A. Bechara, H. Damasio, D. Tranel, and A. R. Damasio (1997) has been used to examine the integration of emotion and cognition in a risky-choice decision task and may give insight into differences in the decision-making strategies in younger and older adults. Eighty-eight younger adults (18-34 years) and 67 older adults (65-88 years) completed the Iowa Gambling Task. Using a theoretical decomposition of the task designed by J. R. Busemeyer and J. C. Stout (2002), the authors found that both groups were successful at solving the task but used very different strategies that reflected each group's strength. For younger adults, that strength was learning and memory. For older adults, that strength was an accurate representation of wins and losses (valence). (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2022 APA, all rights reserved)"	917	0	0	0	1	1	0	0	0	3	1	0	1	4	0	4	5	0	6	5	8
Seeing through the smoke: Human and animal studies of cannabis use and endocannabinoid signalling in corticolimbic networks.	2017	Neurosci Biobehav Rev	0149-7634	76	PB	380-395	"Silveira, Mason; Arnold, Jonathon; Laviolette, Steven; Hillard, Cecilia; Celorrio, Marta; Aymerich, Maria; Adams, Wendy"		"highlights:, corticolimbic circuits mediate cognitive and emotional behavioural processes., endocannabinoid activity, and thus exogenous cannabinoids, modulate their function., the prefrontal cortex, amygdala and ventral hippocampus are key neural loci., individual variation in cannabis response is an important consideration., * both human and animal studies are vital components of such research., public opinion surrounding the recreational use and therapeutic potential of cannabis is shifting. this review describes new work examining the behavioural and neural effects of cannabis and the endocannabinoid system, highlighting key regions within corticolimbic brain circuits. first, we consider the role of human genetic factors and cannabis strain chemotypic differences in contributing to interindividual variation in the response to cannabinoids, such as thc, and review studies demonstrating that thc-induced impairments in decision-making processes are mediated by actions at prefrontal cb1 receptors. we further describe evidence that signalling through prefrontal or ventral hippocampal cb1 receptors modulates mesolimbic dopamine activity, aberrations of which may contribute to emotional processing deficits in schizophrenia. lastly, we review studies suggesting that endocannabinoid tone in the amygdala is a critical regulator of anxiety, and report new data showing that faah activity is integral to this response. together, these findings underscore the importance of cannabinoid signalling in the regulation of cognitive and affective behaviours, and encourage further research given their social, political, and therapeutic implications.,"	10.1016/j.neubiorev.2016.09.007	Decision-making; Individual differences; Cannabis; Prefrontal cortex; Psychiatric disorders; Hippocampus; Anxiety; Amygdala; Social interaction; AEA; Cannabidiol; CB1 receptor; Corticolimbic circuits; Elevated plus maze; Emotional salience processing; Endocannabinoid system; FAAH; Mesolimbic dopamine system; Phytocannabinoids; THC	"Highlights:, * Corticolimbic circuits mediate cognitive and emotional behavioural processes., * Endocannabinoid activity, and thus exogenous cannabinoids, modulate their function., * The prefrontal cortex, amygdala and ventral hippocampus are key neural loci., * Individual variation in cannabis response is an important consideration., * Both human and animal studies are vital components of such research., Public opinion surrounding the recreational use and therapeutic potential of cannabis is shifting. This review describes new work examining the behavioural and neural effects of cannabis and the endocannabinoid system, highlighting key regions within corticolimbic brain circuits. First, we consider the role of human genetic factors and cannabis strain chemotypic differences in contributing to interindividual variation in the response to cannabinoids, such as THC, and review studies demonstrating that THC-induced impairments in decision-making processes are mediated by actions at prefrontal CB1 receptors. We further describe evidence that signalling through prefrontal or ventral hippocampal CB1 receptors modulates mesolimbic dopamine activity, aberrations of which may contribute to emotional processing deficits in schizophrenia. Lastly, we review studies suggesting that endocannabinoid tone in the amygdala is a critical regulator of anxiety, and report new data showing that FAAH activity is integral to this response. Together, these findings underscore the importance of cannabinoid signalling in the regulation of cognitive and affective behaviours, and encourage further research given their social, political, and therapeutic implications., (C) 2017Elsevier, Inc."	1237	0	1	0	0	4	4	1	1	0	3	1	0	2	2	5	4	5	5	1	2
Aberrant decision-making and drug addiction - how strong is the evidence?	2017	CURRENT OPINION IN BEHAVIORAL SCIENCES	2352-1546	13		25-33	"Ekhtiari, H; Victor, TA; Paulus, MP"	English	"there are a growing number of studies with different substance use populations that show evidence for aberrant decision-making, which involves but is not limited to increased temporal discounting, increased risk-taking, and inability to mediate between immediate large gains and long-term larger losses. however, the current literature is inconsistent on how these dysfunctions manifest across different substance use disorders and whether they contribute to the initiation, progression and recovery from these disorders. moreover, there is an incomplete understanding of the neurocognitive processes that underlie these deficits, the best methods to measure them, and ways to improve dysfunction. here, recently published literature on aberrant decision-making is reviewed to address these questions using four domains: self-report measures, behavioral tasks, computational modeling, and functional neuroimaging. in conclusion, we provide suggestions to improve the consistency, validity and applicability of these measures to the reduction of decision-making dysfunction as a core component of prevention and recovery for the future of addiction medicine."	10.1016/j.cobeha.2016.09.002	COGNITIVE CONTROL; COMPUTATIONAL PSYCHIATRY; DEPENDENT PATIENTS; IMPULSIVITY; INDIVIDUALS; IOWA GAMBLING TASK; PREFRONTAL CORTEX; REWARD; RISK-TAKING; SUBSTANCE USE DISORDERS	"There are a growing number of studies with different substance use populations that show evidence for aberrant decision-making, which involves but is not limited to increased temporal discounting, increased risk-taking, and inability to mediate between immediate large gains and long-term larger losses. However, the current literature is inconsistent on how these dysfunctions manifest across different substance use disorders and whether they contribute to the initiation, progression and recovery from these disorders. Moreover, there is an incomplete understanding of the neurocognitive processes that underlie these deficits, the best methods to measure them, and ways to improve dysfunction. Here, recently published literature on aberrant decision-making is reviewed to address these questions using four domains: self-report measures, behavioral tasks, computational modeling, and functional neuroimaging. In conclusion, we provide suggestions to improve the consistency, validity and applicability of these measures to the reduction of decision-making dysfunction as a core component of prevention and recovery for the future of addiction medicine."	28	0	1	2	2	2	2	0	0	1	0	4	4	1	1	0	0	4	1	8	7
Neurocognitive insights into substance abuse.	2005	Trends in Cognitive Sciences	1364-6613	9	4	195-201	"Garavan, Hugh; Stout, Julie C"	English	"cognitive studies are revealing key aspects of how drug abusers monitor and respond to negative feedback differently from non-abusers, and in doing so are adding an important piece to the conceptual puzzle that must be solved to understand, treat, and prevent drug abuse. in this review, we bring together two quite different lines of research, one addressing the selection of gambles in a risky decision task, and the other focused on imaging neural systems related to the detection and processing of errors. we suggest that diminished behavioural control, which is a cardinal feature of drug abuse, may be linked to alterations in the psychological and neural mechanisms that detect error signals and which, in turn, lead to optimization of behavioural responses."	10.1016/j.tics.2005.02.008	*Decision Making; *Cognitive Processes; Feedback; *Drug Abuse; *Neurology	"Cognitive studies are revealing key aspects of how drug abusers monitor and respond to negative feedback differently from non-abusers, and in doing so are adding an important piece to the conceptual puzzle that must be solved to understand, treat, and prevent drug abuse. In this review, we bring together two quite different lines of research, one addressing the selection of gambles in a risky decision task, and the other focused on imaging neural systems related to the detection and processing of errors. We suggest that diminished behavioural control, which is a cardinal feature of drug abuse, may be linked to alterations in the psychological and neural mechanisms that detect error signals and which, in turn, lead to optimization of behavioural responses. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	925	0	0	0	0	4	4	0	0	3	0	3	3	1	1	0	1	1	0	1	1
Computational modeling for addiction medicine: From cognitive models to clinical applications	2016	NEUROSCIENCE FOR ADDICTION MEDICINE: FROM PREVENTION TO REHABILITATION - METHODS AND INTERVENTIONS		224		53-65	"Ahn, WY; Dai, JY; Vassileva, J; Busemeyer, JR; Stout, JC"	English	"decision-making tasks that have good ecological validity, such as simulated gambling tasks, are complex, and performance on these tasks represents a synthesis of several different underlying psychological processes, such as learning from experience, and motivational processes such as sensitivity to reward and punishment. cognitive models can be used to break down performance on these tasks into constituent processes, which can then be assessed and studied in relation to clinical characteristics and neuroimaging outcomes. whether it will be possible to improve treatment success by targeting these constituent processes more directly remains unexplored. we review the development and testing of the expectancy-valence and prospect-valence learning models from the past 10 years or so using simulated gambling tasks, in particular the iowa and soochow gambling tasks. we highlight the issues of model generalizability and parameter consistency, and we describe findings obtained from these models in clinical populations including substance use disorders. we then suggest future directions for this research that will help to bring its utility to broader research and clinical applications."	10.1016/bs.pbr.2015.07.032	Addiction; Cognitive modeling; Decision making; DECISION-MAKING; Expectancy-Valence model; Iowa Gambling Task; LEARNING-MODELS; Prospect-Valence Learning model; Reward sensitivity; Soochow Gambling Task; Substance abuse	"Decision-making tasks that have good ecological validity, such as simulated gambling tasks, are complex, and performance on these tasks represents a synthesis of several different underlying psychological processes, such as learning from experience, and motivational processes such as sensitivity to reward and punishment. Cognitive models can be used to break down performance on these tasks into constituent processes, which can then be assessed and studied in relation to clinical characteristics and neuroimaging outcomes. Whether it will be possible to improve treatment success by targeting these constituent processes more directly remains unexplored. We review the development and testing of the Expectancy-Valence and Prospect-Valence Learning models from the past 10 years or so using simulated gambling tasks, in particular the Iowa and Soochow Gambling Tasks. We highlight the issues of model generalizability and parameter consistency, and we describe findings obtained from these models in clinical populations including substance use disorders. We then suggest future directions for this research that will help to bring its utility to broader research and clinical applications."	4	1	2	1	3	3	1	2	0	2	2	2	2	3	3	3	2	3	3	0	0
Reflection impulsivity in adolescent cannabis users: a comparison with alcohol-using and non-substance-using adolescents.	2012	Psychopharmacology	333158	219	1	575-586	"Solowij, N; Jones, KA; Rozman, ME; Davis, SM; Ciarrochi, J; Heaven, PC; Pesa, N; Lubman, DI; Ycel, M"		"Reflection impulsivitya failure to gather and evaluate information before making a decisionis a critical component of risk-taking and substance use behaviours, which are highly prevalent during adolescence. The Information Sampling Test was used to assess reflection impulsivity in 175 adolescents (mean age 18.3, range 16.520; 55% female)48 cannabis users (2.3 years use, 10.8 days/month), 65 alcohol users, and 62 non-substance-using controls recruited from a longitudinal cohort and from the general community and matched for education and IQ. Cannabis and alcohol users were matched on levels of alcohol consumption. Cannabis users sampled to the lowest degree of certainty before making a decision on the task. Group differences remained significant after controlling for relevant substance use and clinical confounds (e.g., anxiety, depressive symptoms, alcohol, and ecstasy use). Poor performance on multiple IST indices was associated with an earlier age of onset of regular cannabis use and greater duration of exposure to cannabis, after controlling for recent use. Alcohol users did not differ from controls on any IST measure. Exposure to cannabis during adolescence is associated with increased risky and impulsive decision making, with users adopting strategies with higher levels of uncertainty and inefficient utilisation of information. The young cannabis users did show sensitivity to losses, suggesting that greater impulsivity early in their drug using career is more evident when there is a lack of negative consequences. This provides a window of opportunity for intervention before the onset of cannabis dependence."	10.1007/s00213-011-2486-y	Decision making; Cannabis; Adolescence; Alcohol; Reflection impulsivity		2216	0	1	2	2	2	2	1	1	0	3	1	0	2	2	5	4	5	5	8	2
Adolescent brain maturation and smoking: What we know and where we're headed.	2014	Neuroscience and Biobehavioral Reviews	0149-7634	45	"Aarts, E., van Holstein, M., & Cools, R. (2011). Striatal dopamine and the interface between motivation and cognition. Front. Psychol. 2, 1-11 https://dx.doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2011.00163 https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/21808629 https://dx.doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2011.00163"	323-342	"Lydon, David M; Wilson, Stephen J; Child, Amanda; Geier, Charles F"	English	"smoking is a leading cause of mortality and morbidity worldwide. smoking initiation often occurs during adolescence. this paper reviews and synthesizes adolescent development and nicotine dependence literatures to provide an account of adolescent smoking from onset to compulsive use. we extend neurobiological models of adolescent risk-taking, that focus on the interplay between incentive processing and cognitive control brain systems, through incorporating psychosocial and contextual factors specific to smoking, to suggest that adolescents are more vulnerable than adults to cigarette use generally, but that individual differences exist placing some adolescents at increased risk for smoking. upon smoking, adolescents are more likely to continue smoking due to the increased positive effects induced by nicotine during this period. continued use during adolescence, may be best understood as reflecting drug-related changes to neural systems underlying incentive processing and cognitive control, resulting in decision-making that is biased towards continued smoking. persistent changes following nicotine exposure that may underlie continued dependence are described. we highlight ways that interventions may benefit from a consideration of cognitive-neuroscience findings."	10.1016/j.neubiorev.2014.07.003	Adolescent Development; *Cognitive Control; Incentives; *Drug Dependency; *Nicotine; Tobacco Smoking	"Smoking is a leading cause of mortality and morbidity worldwide. Smoking initiation often occurs during adolescence. This paper reviews and synthesizes adolescent development and nicotine dependence literatures to provide an account of adolescent smoking from onset to compulsive use. We extend neurobiological models of adolescent risk-taking, that focus on the interplay between incentive processing and cognitive control brain systems, through incorporating psychosocial and contextual factors specific to smoking, to suggest that adolescents are more vulnerable than adults to cigarette use generally, but that individual differences exist placing some adolescents at increased risk for smoking. Upon smoking, adolescents are more likely to continue smoking due to the increased positive effects induced by nicotine during this period. Continued use during adolescence, may be best understood as reflecting drug-related changes to neural systems underlying incentive processing and cognitive control, resulting in decision-making that is biased towards continued smoking. Persistent changes following nicotine exposure that may underlie continued dependence are described. We highlight ways that interventions may benefit from a consideration of cognitive-neuroscience findings. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	630	0	0	0	0	0	5	0	0	3	0	3	3	0	0	2	1	2	2	2	3
Generalization of value in reinforcement learning by humans.	2012	Eur J Neurosci	0953-816X	35	7	1092-1104	"Wimmer, Elliott; Daw, Nathaniel; Shohamy, Daphna"		"research in decision-making has focused on the role of dopamine and its striatal targets in guiding choices via learned stimulus-reward or stimulus-response associations, behavior that is well described by reinforcement learning theories. however, basic reinforcement learning is relatively limited in scope and does not explain how learning about stimulus regularities or relations may guide decision-making. a candidate mechanism for this type of learning comes from the domain of memory, which has highlighted a role for the hippocampus in learning of stimulus-stimulus relations, typically dissociated from the role of the striatum in stimulus-response learning. here, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging and computational model-based analyses to examine the joint contributions of these mechanisms to reinforcement learning. humans performed a reinforcement learning task with added relational structure, modeled after tasks used to isolate hippocampal contributions to memory. on each trial participants chose one of four options, but the reward probabilities for pairs of options were correlated across trials. this (uninstructed) relationship between pairs of options potentially enabled an observer to learn about option values based on experience with the other options and to generalize across them. we observed blood oxygen level-dependent (bold) activity related to learning in the striatum and also in the hippocampus. by comparing a basic reinforcement learning model to one augmented to allow feedback to generalize between correlated options, we tested whether choice behavior and bold activity were influenced by the opportunity to generalize across correlated options. although such generalization goes beyond standard computational accounts of reinforcement learning and striatal bold, both choices and striatal bold activity were better explained by the augmented model. consistent with the hypothesized role for the hippocampus in this generalization, functional connectivity between the ventral striatum and hippocampus was modulated, across participants, by the ability of the augmented model to capture participants' choice. our results thus point toward an interactive model in which striatal reinforcement learning systems may employ relational representations typically associated with the hippocampus.,"	10.1111/j.1460-9568.2012.08017.x	computational model; reward; hippocampus; ventral striatum; memory	"Research in decision-making has focused on the role of dopamine and its striatal targets in guiding choices via learned stimulus-reward or stimulus-response associations, behavior that is well described by reinforcement learning theories. However, basic reinforcement learning is relatively limited in scope and does not explain how learning about stimulus regularities or relations may guide decision-making. A candidate mechanism for this type of learning comes from the domain of memory, which has highlighted a role for the hippocampus in learning of stimulus-stimulus relations, typically dissociated from the role of the striatum in stimulus-response learning. Here, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging and computational model-based analyses to examine the joint contributions of these mechanisms to reinforcement learning. Humans performed a reinforcement learning task with added relational structure, modeled after tasks used to isolate hippocampal contributions to memory. On each trial participants chose one of four options, but the reward probabilities for pairs of options were correlated across trials. This (uninstructed) relationship between pairs of options potentially enabled an observer to learn about option values based on experience with the other options and to generalize across them. We observed blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) activity related to learning in the striatum and also in the hippocampus. By comparing a basic reinforcement learning model to one augmented to allow feedback to generalize between correlated options, we tested whether choice behavior and BOLD activity were influenced by the opportunity to generalize across correlated options. Although such generalization goes beyond standard computational accounts of reinforcement learning and striatal BOLD, both choices and striatal BOLD activity were better explained by the augmented model. Consistent with the hypothesized role for the hippocampus in this generalization, functional connectivity between the ventral striatum and hippocampus was modulated, across participants, by the ability of the augmented model to capture participants' choice. Our results thus point toward an interactive model in which striatal reinforcement learning systems may employ relational representations typically associated with the hippocampus., Copyright (C) 2012 Blackwell Publishing Ltd."	1446	0	1	0	0	0	3	0	0	3	0	3	3	0	0	2	1	2	2	3	3
Imprecise action selection in substance use disorder: Evidence for active learning impairments when solving the explore-exploit dilemma	2020	DRUG AND ALCOHOL DEPENDENCE	0376-8716	215			"Smith, R; Schwartenbeck, P; Stewart, JL; Kuplicki, R; Ekhtiari, H; Paulus, MP; Tulsa 1000 Investigators"	English	"substance use disorders (suds) are a major public health risk. however, mechanisms accounting for continued patterns of poor choices in the face of negative life consequences remain poorly understood. we use a computational (active inference) modeling approach, combined with multiple regression and hierarchical bayesian group analyses, to examine how treatment-seeking individuals with one or more suds (alcohol, cannabis, sedatives, stimulants, hallucinogens, and/or opioids; n = 147) and healthy controls (hcs; n = 54) make choices to resolve uncertainty within a gambling task. a subset of suds (n = 49) and hcs (n = 51) propensity-matched on age, sex, and verbal iq were also compared to replicate larger group findings. results indicate that (a) suds show poorer task performance than hcs (p = 0.03, cohen's d = 0.33), with model estimates revealing less precise action selection mechanisms (p = 0.004, d = 0.43), a lower learning rate from losses (p = 0.02, d = 0.36), and a greater learning rate from gains (p = 0.04, d = 0.31); and (b) groups do not differ significantly in goal-directed information seeking. findings suggest a pattern of inconsistent behavior in response to positive outcomes in suds combined with a tendency to attribute negative outcomes to chance. specifically, individuals with suds fail to settle on a behavior strategy despite sufficient evidence of its success. these learning impairments could help account for difficulties in adjusting behavior and maintaining optimal decision-making during and after treatment."	10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2020.108208	Active inference; ADDICTION; ASSOCIATIONS; BAYESIAN MODEL SELECTION; BRAIN ACTIVATION; Computational modeling; DECISION-MAKING; Directed exploration; Explore-exploit dilemma; Learning rate; OVERDOSE DEATHS; PUNISHMENT; REWARD; SENSITIVITY; Substance use disorders; UNITED-STATES	"Background: Substance use disorders (SUDs) are a major public health risk. However, mechanisms accounting for continued patterns of poor choices in the face of negative life consequences remain poorly understood. Methods: We use a computational (active inference) modeling approach, combined with multiple regression and hierarchical Bayesian group analyses, to examine how treatment-seeking individuals with one or more SUDs (alcohol, cannabis, sedatives, stimulants, hallucinogens, and/or opioids; N = 147) and healthy controls (HCs; N = 54) make choices to resolve uncertainty within a gambling task. A subset of SUDs (N = 49) and HCs (N = 51) propensity-matched on age, sex, and verbal IQ were also compared to replicate larger group findings. Results: Results indicate that (a) SUDs show poorer task performance than HCs (p = 0.03, Cohen's d = 0.33), with model estimates revealing less precise action selection mechanisms (p = 0.004, d = 0.43), a lower learning rate from losses (p = 0.02, d = 0.36), and a greater learning rate from gains (p = 0.04, d = 0.31); and (b) groups do not differ significantly in goal-directed information seeking. Conclusions: Findings suggest a pattern of inconsistent behavior in response to positive outcomes in SUDs combined with a tendency to attribute negative outcomes to chance. Specifically, individuals with SUDs fail to settle on a behavior strategy despite sufficient evidence of its success. These learning impairments could help account for difficulties in adjusting behavior and maintaining optimal decision-making during and after treatment."	44	0	1	2	2	2	2	0	0	1	0	4	4	1	1	0	0	4	1	4	7
Nonconformist tendencies related to risky choices in female methamphetamine abstainers	2020	AMERICAN JOURNAL OF DRUG AND ALCOHOL ABUSE	0095-2990	46	1	68-77	"Wei, SG; Liu, QY; Harrington, M; Sun, JX; Yu, H; Hang, J; Hao, M; Wu, HY; Liu, X"	English	"many experimental studies and theoretical models have tried to explain the multifaceted formation of drug addiction. in most addiction models, social factors are an important component; however, few empirical studies have investigated the social influences on the safe or risky choices of drug-addicted individuals during the abstinence stage. to investigate the behavioral patterns of female methamphetamine abstainers under social influence. thirty-seven female methamphetamine abstainers (average abstinence time: 8.61 +/- 4.75 months) and 40 matched controls performed a gambling task in the presence of peers' choices. we applied both model-free and computational model-based analysis to examine how the decision patterns differed with social influence between the two groups. 1) the choice data from the two groups showed a social influence effect such that participants made more risky choices when others made risky choices; 2) overall, the female methamphetamine abstainers made more risky choices in the social influence task; and 3) in the computational model parameters, the female methamphetamine abstainers exhibited more nonconforming attitudes (with negative other-conferred utility) with respect to peer influence, whereas controls showed higher conformity to peers. conclusion: our findings provide the first objective evidence that female methamphetamine abstainers show peer nonconformity. this nonconformist tendency may be a potential behavioral marker to track drug addiction and help to elucidate the mechanisms of decisions made by female methamphetamine abstainers."	10.1080/00952990.2019.1608554	addiction; ADOLESCENT CIGARETTE-SMOKING; COCAINE; computational modeling; decision making; DECISION-MAKING; DRUG-USE; GENDER-DIFFERENCES; IMPULSIVITY; Methamphetamine; NEUROBIOLOGY; PERSONALITY; SEX-DIFFERENCES; social conformity; social influence; SUBSTANCE USE	"Background: Many experimental studies and theoretical models have tried to explain the multifaceted formation of drug addiction. In most addiction models, social factors are an important component; however, few empirical studies have investigated the social influences on the safe or risky choices of drug-addicted individuals during the abstinence stage. Objectives: To investigate the behavioral patterns of female methamphetamine abstainers under social influence. Methods: Thirty-seven female methamphetamine abstainers (average abstinence time: 8.61 +/- 4.75 months) and 40 matched controls performed a gambling task in the presence of peers' choices. We applied both model-free and computational model-based analysis to examine how the decision patterns differed with social influence between the two groups. Results: 1) the choice data from the two groups showed a social influence effect such that participants made more risky choices when others made risky choices; 2) overall, the female methamphetamine abstainers made more risky choices in the social influence task; and 3) in the computational model parameters, the female methamphetamine abstainers exhibited more nonconforming attitudes (with negative other-conferred utility) with respect to peer influence, whereas controls showed higher conformity to peers. Conclusion: Our findings provide the first objective evidence that female methamphetamine abstainers show peer nonconformity. This nonconformist tendency may be a potential behavioral marker to track drug addiction and help to elucidate the mechanisms of decisions made by female methamphetamine abstainers."	17	0	1	0	0	4	4	0	0	1	0	3	3	1	1	0	1	2	2	1	7
Substance use is associated with reduced devaluation sensitivity.	2019	"Cognitive, Affective & Behavioral Neuroscience"	1530-7026	19	1	40-55	"Byrne, Kaileigh A; Otto, A. Ross; Pang, Bo; Patrick, Christopher J; Worthy, Darrell A"	English	"substance use has been linked to impairments in reward processing and decision-making, yet empirical research on the relationship between substance use and devaluation of reward in humans is limited. we report findings from two studies that tested whether individual differences in substance use behavior predicted reward learning strategies and devaluation sensitivity in a nonclinical sample. participants in experiment 1 (n = 66) and experiment 2 (n = 91) completed subscales of the externalizing spectrum inventory and then performed a two-stage reinforcement learning task that included a devaluation procedure. spontaneous eye blink rate was used as an indirect proxy for dopamine functioning. in experiment 1, correlational analysis revealed a negative relationship between substance use and devaluation sensitivity. in experiment 2, regression modeling revealed that while spontaneous eyeblink rate moderated the relationship between substance use and reward learning strategies, substance use alone was related to devaluation sensitivity. these results suggest that once reward-action associations are established during reinforcement learning, substance use predicted reduced sensitivity to devaluation independently of variation in eyeblink rate. thus, substance use is not only related to increased habit formation but also to difficulty disengaging from learned habits. implications for the role of the dopaminergic system in habitual responding in individuals with substance use problems are discussed."	10.3758/s13415-018-0638-9	*Rewards; *Decision Making; *Drug Usage; *Habits	"Substance use has been linked to impairments in reward processing and decision-making, yet empirical research on the relationship between substance use and devaluation of reward in humans is limited. We report findings from two studies that tested whether individual differences in substance use behavior predicted reward learning strategies and devaluation sensitivity in a nonclinical sample. Participants in Experiment 1 (N = 66) and Experiment 2 (N = 91) completed subscales of the Externalizing Spectrum Inventory and then performed a two-stage reinforcement learning task that included a devaluation procedure. Spontaneous eye blink rate was used as an indirect proxy for dopamine functioning. In Experiment 1, correlational analysis revealed a negative relationship between substance use and devaluation sensitivity. In Experiment 2, regression modeling revealed that while spontaneous eyeblink rate moderated the relationship between substance use and reward learning strategies, substance use alone was related to devaluation sensitivity. These results suggest that once reward-action associations are established during reinforcement learning, substance use predicted reduced sensitivity to devaluation independently of variation in eyeblink rate. Thus, substance use is not only related to increased habit formation but also to difficulty disengaging from learned habits. Implications for the role of the dopaminergic system in habitual responding in individuals with substance use problems are discussed. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	333	0	1	2	2	2	2	0	0	1	0	4	4	1	1	0	0	4	1	4	7
Differences in self-reported decision-making styles in stimulant-dependent and opiate-dependent individuals.	2011	Psychiatry Research	0165-1781	186	3-Feb	437-440	"Gorodetzky, Hadas; Sahakian, Barbara J; Robbins, Trevor W; Ersche, Karen D"	English	"[correction notice: an erratum for this article was reported in vol 188(1) of psychiatry research (see record 2011-11938-028). there was an error in the 1st paragraph of the it should read as follows: ""however, the type of the outcome seems to shape cocaine users' decision-making strategies, i.e. in situations that require decisions on real monetary rewards, cocaine users make less risky decisions than in situations that involve hypothetical outcomes (vadhan et al., 2009).""] in light of the growing evidence of altered decision-making in addiction we assessed decision-making styles in drug-dependent individuals using the melbourne decision-making questionnaire (mdmq). consistent with the literature on laboratory tests of decision-making, we found that stimulant users reported less competent and more maladaptive decision-making styles compared with controls."	10.1016/j.psychres.2010.07.024	*Decision Making; *Opiates; *Drug Addiction; *Drug Dependency; Stimulation	"[Correction Notice: An erratum for this article was reported in Vol 188(1) of Psychiatry Research (see record 2011-11938-028). There was an error in the 1st paragraph of the discussion. It should read as follows: ""However, the type of the outcome seems to shape cocaine users' decision-making strategies, i.e. in situations that require decisions on real monetary rewards, cocaine users make less risky decisions than in situations that involve hypothetical outcomes (Vadhan et al., 2009).""] In light of the growing evidence of altered decision-making in addiction we assessed decision-making styles in drug-dependent individuals using the Melbourne Decision-Making Questionnaire (MDMQ). Consistent with the literature on laboratory tests of decision-making, we found that stimulant users reported less competent and more maladaptive decision-making styles compared with controls. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	778	0	0	0	1	1	0	0	0	3	1	0	5	0	0	2	1	2	2	5	3
"Effect of heroin use on changes of brain functions as measured by functional magnetic resonance imaging, a systematic review."	2017	Journal of Addictive Diseases	1055-0887	36	2	105-116	"Fareed, Ayman; Kim, Jungjin; Ketchen, Bethany; Kwak, Woo Jin; Wang, Danzhao; Shongo-Hiango, Hilaire; Drexler, Karen"	English	"in this study the authors focus on reviewing imaging studies that used resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging for individuals with a history of heroin use. this review study compiled existing research addressing the effect of heroin use on decision making by reviewing available functional neuroimaging data. systematic review of the literatures using the preferred reporting items for systematic reviews and meta-analyses checklist. eligible articles were retrieved through a computer-based medline and psycinfo search from 1960 to december 2015 using the major medical subject headings ""heroin, fmri"" (all fields). only english language was included. thirty-seven articles were initially included in the review. sixteen were excluded because they did not meet the inclusion criteria. the results of 21 articles that met all the inclusion criteria were presented. based on the 21 studies included in the current review, there is evidence that heroin use may have a direct and damaging effect on certain brain functions and that these changes may be associated with impulsive and unhealthy decision making. from the review of these studies, the authors understand that a longer duration of heroin use may be associated with more damaging effects on brain functions. the authors also understand that these brain changes could last long after abstinence, which may increase the risk of relapse to heroin use. more research is needed to create a biomarker map for patients with heroin use disorder that can be used to guide and assess response to treatment."	10.1080/10550887.2017.1280898	Decision Making; *Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging; *Heroin Use Disorder; *Executive Function; *Brain	"In this study the authors focus on reviewing imaging studies that used resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging for individuals with a history of heroin use. This review study compiled existing research addressing the effect of heroin use on decision making by reviewing available functional neuroimaging data. Systematic review of the literatures using the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses checklist. Eligible articles were retrieved through a computer-based MEDLINE and PsycINFO search from 1960 to December 2015 using the major medical subject headings ""heroin, fMRI"" (all fields). Only English language was included. Thirty-seven articles were initially included in the review. Sixteen were excluded because they did not meet the inclusion criteria. The results of 21 articles that met all the inclusion criteria were presented. Based on the 21 studies included in the current review, there is evidence that heroin use may have a direct and damaging effect on certain brain functions and that these changes may be associated with impulsive and unhealthy decision making. From the review of these studies, the authors understand that a longer duration of heroin use may be associated with more damaging effects on brain functions. The authors also understand that these brain changes could last long after abstinence, which may increase the risk of relapse to heroin use. More research is needed to create a biomarker map for patients with heroin use disorder that can be used to guide and assess response to treatment. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2022 APA, all rights reserved)"	414	0	0	0	0	4	4	0	0	3	0	3	3	1	1	0	3	1	0	1	1
Cumulative gains enhance striatal response to reward opportunities in alcohol-dependent patients.	2015	Addiction Biology	1355-6215	20	3	580-593	"Gilman, Jodi M; Smith, Ashley R; Bjork, James M; Ramchandani, Vijay A; Momenan, Reza; Hommer, Daniel W"	English	"substance use disorder is characterized by a transition from volitional to compulsive responding for drug reward. a possible explanation for this transition may be that alcohol-dependent patients (adp) show a general propensity for a history of rewarded instrumental responses, and these rewarded responses may boost the activation of motivational neurocircuitry for additional reward. brain imaging studies of decision-making have demonstrated that adp relative to controls (con) often show altered neural activation in response to anticipating and receiving rewards, but the majority of studies have not investigated how past performance affects activation. a potential exists for adp to show increased sensitivity to reward as a function of reward delivery history. in the current study, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging to investigate the neural correlates of risky decision-making in adp (n = 18) and con (n = 18) while they played a two-choice monetary risk-taking game. in addition to investigating general neural recruitment by risky decision-making, we also modeled each participant's running total of monetary earnings in order to determine areas of activation that correlated with cumulative reward. we found that adp and con showed few differences in behavior or in mesolimbic activation by choice for, and receipt of, risky gains. however, when including a cumulative-earnings covariate, adp exhibited heightened striatal activation that correlated with total earnings during the choice event in the task. the heightened contextual sensitivity of striatal responses to cumulative earnings in adp may represent a general neurobiological affective substrate for development of automatized instrumental behavior."	10.1111/adb.12147	Rewards; *Decision Making; *Risk Taking; *Neural Networks; *Alcoholism; Basal Ganglia	"Substance use disorder is characterized by a transition from volitional to compulsive responding for drug reward. A possible explanation for this transition may be that alcohol-dependent patients (ADP) show a general propensity for a history of rewarded instrumental responses, and these rewarded responses may boost the activation of motivational neurocircuitry for additional reward. Brain imaging studies of decision-making have demonstrated that ADP relative to controls (CON) often show altered neural activation in response to anticipating and receiving rewards, but the majority of studies have not investigated how past performance affects activation. A potential exists for ADP to show increased sensitivity to reward as a function of reward delivery history. In the current study, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging to investigate the neural correlates of risky decision-making in ADP (n = 18) and CON (n = 18) while they played a two-choice monetary risk-taking game. In addition to investigating general neural recruitment by risky decision-making, we also modeled each participant's running total of monetary earnings in order to determine areas of activation that correlated with cumulative reward. We found that ADP and CON showed few differences in behavior or in mesolimbic activation by choice for, and receipt of, risky gains. However, when including a cumulative-earnings covariate, ADP exhibited heightened striatal activation that correlated with total earnings during the choice event in the task. The heightened contextual sensitivity of striatal responses to cumulative earnings in ADP may represent a general neurobiological affective substrate for development of automatized instrumental behavior. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	601	0	1	0	0	4	4	0	0	1	0	3	3	1	1	0	0	4	1	1	1
Decision-making in drug-dependent patients.	2011	Toma de decisiones en pacientes drogodependientes.	0214-4840	23	4	277-287	"Mogedas Valladares, Ana Isabel; Alameda Bailen, Jose Ramon"	Spanish	"the somatic marker hypothesis proposes that certain body signals guide decision-making processes in an adaptive direction. to see the influence of these markers on decision-making we used the iowa gambling task, through which several studies have shown impaired decision-making in drug-dependent patients. to assess the performance of a sample of drug-dependent patients in a task that is sensitive to the measurement of decision-making process, so as to see whether there are significant alterations, and to compare the performance of these patients with that of non-users (in the normal and inverted versions). method: the sample consisted of 66 people (33 addicts and 33 control participants). we used a semi-structured interview on socio-demographic variables and two versions of the ""cartas"" task, a computerised version of the iowa gambling task. result: significant differences were found between the control and experimental groups in execution of the normal task, but not of the inverted version. in total, 75.76% of the drug-dependent patients showed impaired task performance, as against 24.24% who performed it correctly. the results indicate the presence of alterations in the decision-making processes of drug-dependent patients, who did not perform as well as the control group. this may be due to difficulty in generating somatic states according to possible future consequences (myopia about the future) in patients addicted to drugs."	10.20882/adicciones.121	*Decision Making; *Performance; *Task Analysis; *Drug Addiction; *Drug Dependency	"Introduction: The somatic marker hypothesis proposes that certain body signals guide decision-making processes in an adaptive direction. To see the influence of these markers on decision-making we used the Iowa Gambling Task, through which several studies have shown impaired decision-making in drug-dependent patients. Objective: To assess the performance of a sample of drug-dependent patients in a task that is sensitive to the measurement of decision-making process, so as to see whether there are significant alterations, and to compare the performance of these patients with that of non-users (in the normal and inverted versions). Method: The sample consisted of 66 people (33 addicts and 33 control participants). We used a semi-structured interview on socio-demographic variables and two versions of the ""Cartas"" task, a computerised version of the Iowa Gambling Task. Result: Significant differences were found between the control and experimental groups in execution of the normal task, but not of the inverted version. In total, 75.76% of the drug-dependent patients showed impaired task performance, as against 24.24% who performed it correctly. Discussion: The results indicate the presence of alterations in the decision-making processes of drug-dependent patients, who did not perform as well as the control group. This may be due to difficulty in generating somatic states according to possible future consequences (myopia about the future) in patients addicted to drugs. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2022 APA, all rights reserved)"	752	0	0	0	0	0	5	0	0	3	0	3	3	0	0	1	1	2	2	2	3
Affective decision-making moderates the effects of automatic associations on alcohol use among drug offenders.	2017	The American Journal of Drug and Alcohol Abuse	0095-2990	43	5	534-544	"Cappelli, Christopher; Ames, Susan; Shono, Yusuke; Dust, Mark; Stacy, Alan"	English	"this study used a dual-process model of cognition in order to investigate the possible influence of automatic and deliberative processes on lifetime alcohol use in a sample of drug offenders. the objective was to determine if automatic/implicit associations in memory can exert an influence over an individual's alcohol use and if decision-making ability could potentially modify the influence of these associations. 168 participants completed a battery of cognitive tests measuring implicit alcohol associations in memory (verb generation) as well as their affective decision-making ability (iowa gambling task). structural equation modeling procedures were used to test the relationship between implicit associations, decision-making, and lifetime alcohol use. results revealed that among participants with lower levels of decision-making, implicit alcohol associations more strongly predicted higher lifetime alcohol use. conclusion: these findings provide further support for the interaction between a specific decision function and its influence over automatic processes in regulating alcohol use behavior in a risky population. understanding the interaction between automatic associations and decision processes may aid in developing more effective intervention components."	10.1080/00952990.2016.1216557	Cognition; *Decision Making; *Alcohol Treatment; *Alcohols	"Background: This study used a dual-process model of cognition in order to investigate the possible influence of automatic and deliberative processes on lifetime alcohol use in a sample of drug offenders. Objective: The objective was to determine if automatic/implicit associations in memory can exert an influence over an individual's alcohol use and if decision-making ability could potentially modify the influence of these associations. Methods: 168 participants completed a battery of cognitive tests measuring implicit alcohol associations in memory (verb generation) as well as their affective decision-making ability (Iowa Gambling Task). Structural equation modeling procedures were used to test the relationship between implicit associations, decision-making, and lifetime alcohol use. Results: Results revealed that among participants with lower levels of decision-making, implicit alcohol associations more strongly predicted higher lifetime alcohol use. Conclusion: These findings provide further support for the interaction between a specific decision function and its influence over automatic processes in regulating alcohol use behavior in a risky population. Understanding the interaction between automatic associations and decision processes may aid in developing more effective intervention components. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	425	0	0	0	0	4	4	0	0	3	0	3	3	1	1	0	3	1	0	1	6
A computational cognitive model of the Iowa Gambling Task for finely characterizing decision making in methamphetamine users	2022	EXPERT SYSTEMS WITH APPLICATIONS	0957-4174	205			"Serrano, JI; Iglesias, A; Woods, SP; Del Castillo, MD"	English	"conventional scores from the iowa gambling task (igt) have been used to assess decision making in a variety of disorders, including substance use. this study extends that work by examining a novel computational cognitive model of the igt that was hypothesized to capture fine-grained differences in decision-making styles in persons with recent methamphetamine use disorders. a total of 64 participants were evaluated in this study, which included individuals with lifetime methamphetamine dependence diagnoses, individuals with diagnoses of both methamphetamine and other substance dependence, and control participants with no histories of substance use disorders. participants were individually modeled performing the igt by adjusting the parameters of the computational model maiden-igt with an evolutionary strategy. the resultant models explained more than 80% of the participants' behavior. the common igt net score alone was not able to detect any inter-group differences. however, the modeling process yielded differentiated inter-group patterns of behavior extracted from the computational models. relative to control participants, methamphetamine users exhibited a lower estimation of the possible losses as well as the risk associated to the losses. in addition, multi-substance users showed a behavior pattern that affects the evaluation of losses and the risk associated with gains. maiden-igt computational models were more sensitive than traditional metrics to the risky decision making of persons with methamphetamine use disorders. these novel models raise plausible hypotheses about the nature of motivated behaviors in the context of substance use disorders."	10.1016/j.eswa.2022.117795	Computational cognitive modeling; Decision making; DEFICITS; Drug abuse; INDIVIDUALS; Iowa Gambling Task; LEARNING-MODELS; Methamphetamine; PERFORMANCE; SOMATIC MARKER HYPOTHESIS	"Background: Conventional scores from the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) have been used to assess decision making in a variety of disorders, including substance use. This study extends that work by examining a novel computational cognitive model of the IGT that was hypothesized to capture fine-grained differences in decision-making styles in persons with recent methamphetamine use disorders. Methods: A total of 64 participants were evaluated in this study, which included individuals with lifetime methamphetamine dependence diagnoses, individuals with diagnoses of both methamphetamine and other substance dependence, and control participants with no histories of substance use disorders. Participants were individually modeled performing the IGT by adjusting the parameters of the computational model MAIDEN-IGT with an evolutionary strategy. Results: The resultant models explained more than 80% of the participants' behavior. The common IGT net score alone was not able to detect any inter-group differences. However, the modeling process yielded differentiated inter-group patterns of behavior extracted from the computational models. Relative to control participants, methamphetamine users exhibited a lower estimation of the possible losses as well as the risk associated to the losses. In addition, multi-substance users showed a behavior pattern that affects the evaluation of losses and the risk associated with gains. Conclusions: MAIDEN-IGT computational models were more sensitive than traditional metrics to the risky decision making of persons with methamphetamine use disorders. These novel models raise plausible hypotheses about the nature of motivated behaviors in the context of substance use disorders."	0	0	1	2	2	2	2	0	0	1	0	4	4	1	1	0	0	4	1	4	7
"How Working Memory and Reinforcement Learning Are Intertwined: A Cognitive, Neural, and Computational Perspective."	2022	Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience	0898929X	34	4	551-568	"Yoo, Aspen H.; Collins, Anne G. E."		"reinforcement learning and working memory are two core processes of human cognition and are often considered cognitively, neuroscientifically, and algorithmically distinct. here, we show that the brain networks that support them actually overlap significantly and that they are less distinct cognitive processes than often assumed. we review literature demonstrating the benefits of considering each process to explain properties of the other and highlight recent work investigating their more complex interactions. we discuss how future research in both computational and cognitive sciences can benefit from one another, suggesting that a key missing piece for artificial agents to learn to behave with more human-like efficiency is taking working memory's role in learning seriously. this review highlights the risks of neglecting the interplay between different processes when studying human behavior (in particular when considering individual differences). we emphasize the importance of investigating these dynamics to build a comprehensive understanding of human cognition."	10.1162/jocn_a_01808	REINFORCEMENT learning; HUMAN behavior; COGNITIVE science; LARGE-scale brain networks; SHORT-term memory	"Reinforcement learning and working memory are two core processes of human cognition and are often considered cognitively, neuroscientifically, and algorithmically distinct. Here, we show that the brain networks that support them actually overlap significantly and that they are less distinct cognitive processes than often assumed. We review literature demonstrating the benefits of considering each process to explain properties of the other and highlight recent work investigating their more complex interactions. We discuss how future research in both computational and cognitive sciences can benefit from one another, suggesting that a key missing piece for artificial agents to learn to behave with more human-like efficiency is taking working memory's role in learning seriously. This review highlights the risks of neglecting the interplay between different processes when studying human behavior (in particular when considering individual differences). We emphasize the importance of investigating these dynamics to build a comprehensive understanding of human cognition. [ABSTRACT FROM AUTHOR]"	1853	0	0	0	0	0	3	0	0	3	1	0	1	0	0	2	1	2	2	3	3
Neural Mechanisms of Human Decision-Making.	2021	"Cognitive, Affective & Behavioral Neuroscience"	1530-7026	21	1	35-57	"Herd, Seth; Krueger, Kai; Nair, Ananta; Mollick, Jessica; O'Reilly, Randall"		"we present a theory and neural network model of the neural mechanisms underlying human decision-making. we propose a detailed model of the interaction between brain regions, under a proposer-predictor-actor-critic_ _framework. this theory is based on detailed animal data and theories of action-selection. those theories are adapted to serial operation to bridge levels of analysis and explain human decision-making. task-relevant areas of cortex propose a candidate plan using fast, model-free, parallel neural computations. other areas of cortex and medial temporal lobe can then predict_ likely outcomes of that plan in this situation. this optional prediction- (or model-) based computation can produce better accuracy and generalization, at the expense of speed. next, linked regions of basal ganglia act_ to accept or reject the proposed plan based on its reward history in similar contexts. if that plan is rejected, the process repeats to consider a new option. the reward-prediction system acts as a critic_ to determine the value of the outcome relative to expectations and produce dopamine as a training signal for cortex and basal ganglia. by operating sequentially and hierarchically, the same mechanisms previously proposed for animal action-selection could explain the most complex human plans and decisions. we discuss explanations of model-based decisions, habitization, and risky behavior based on the computational model."	10.3758/s13415-020-00842-0		"We present a theory and neural network model of the neural mechanisms underlying human decision-making. We propose a detailed model of the interaction between brain regions, under a proposer-predictor-actor-critic_ _framework. This theory is based on detailed animal data and theories of action-selection. Those theories are adapted to serial operation to bridge levels of analysis and explain human decision-making. Task-relevant areas of cortex propose a candidate plan using fast, model-free, parallel neural computations. Other areas of cortex and medial temporal lobe can then predict_ likely outcomes of that plan in this situation. This optional prediction- (or model-) based computation can produce better accuracy and generalization, at the expense of speed. Next, linked regions of basal ganglia act_ to accept or reject the proposed plan based on its reward history in similar contexts. If that plan is rejected, the process repeats to consider a new option. The reward-prediction system acts as a critic_ to determine the value of the outcome relative to expectations and produce dopamine as a training signal for cortex and basal ganglia. By operating sequentially and hierarchically, the same mechanisms previously proposed for animal action-selection could explain the most complex human plans and decisions. We discuss explanations of model-based decisions, habitization, and risky behavior based on the computational model."	1901	0	0	0	0	0	3	0	0	3	1	0	1	0	0	2	1	2	2	3	3
Differences in decision-making as a function of drug of choice.	2018	"Pharmacology, Biochemistry and Behavior"	0091-3057	164	"Acheson, A., Robinson, J.L., Glahn, D.C., Lovallo, W.R., & Fox, P.T. (2009). Differential activation of the anterior cingulate cortex and caudate nucleus during a gambling simulation in persons with a family history of alcoholism: studies from the Oklahoma Family Health Patterns Project. Drug Alcohol Depend. 100, 17-23. https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/19026496 https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2008.08.019 2009-00352-003."	118-124	"Gowin, Joshua L; Sloan, Matthew E; Ramchandani, Vijay A; Paulus, Martin P; Lane, Scott D"	English	"poor decision-making is a central feature of all substance use disorders (sud), but substances vary in the legal and health consequences associated with their use. for example, while the negative health consequences associated with cigarette smoking are often years away, the consequences of heroin abuse can be fatal in mere hours. it remains unclear if users of these substances show decision-making patterns that differ with the relative riskiness of their drug of choice. to address this question, we reviewed studies that compared decision-making of individuals using different substances. we focused on studies assessing two of the most commonly investigated decision-making processes-delay discounting and risk taking-and specifically focused on decision-making that involved selection between options for hypothetical monetary rewards. for delay discounting, we reviewed studies that assessed decisions regarding delayed or immediate monetary rewards, and for risk-taking we reviewed studies using the iowa gambling task. studies directly comparing different sud groups were limited in number and tended to compare alcohol or cocaine users to other substance users. overall, these studies do not support the hypothesis that decision-making differed by drug of choice. major limitations in the literature include failing to account for comorbid substance use and a lack of prospective longitudinal studies. due to these limitations, conclusions should be considered provisional. nonetheless, current findings suggest that these two facets of decision-making are similar across drugs of abuse."	10.1016/j.pbb.2017.09.007	Risk Taking; Alcohol Abuse; Nicotine; *Decision Making; *Cocaine; *Substance Use Disorder; *Cannabis Use; *Delay Discounting; Amphetamines	"Poor decision-making is a central feature of all substance use disorders (SUD), but substances vary in the legal and health consequences associated with their use. For example, while the negative health consequences associated with cigarette smoking are often years away, the consequences of heroin abuse can be fatal in mere hours. It remains unclear if users of these substances show decision-making patterns that differ with the relative riskiness of their drug of choice. To address this question, we reviewed studies that compared decision-making of individuals using different substances. We focused on studies assessing two of the most commonly investigated decision-making processes-delay discounting and risk taking-and specifically focused on decision-making that involved selection between options for hypothetical monetary rewards. For delay discounting, we reviewed studies that assessed decisions regarding delayed or immediate monetary rewards, and for risk-taking we reviewed studies using the Iowa Gambling Task. Studies directly comparing different SUD groups were limited in number and tended to compare alcohol or cocaine users to other substance users. Overall, these studies do not support the hypothesis that decision-making differed by drug of choice. Major limitations in the literature include failing to account for comorbid substance use and a lack of prospective longitudinal studies. Due to these limitations, conclusions should be considered provisional. Nonetheless, current findings suggest that these two facets of decision-making are similar across drugs of abuse. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2022 APA, all rights reserved)"	357	0	1	2	2	2	2	0	0	1	0	4	4	1	1	0	0	4	1	4	7
Temporal profile of fronto-striatal-limbic activity during implicit decisions in drug dependence.	2014	Drug and Alcohol Dependence	0376-8716	136	"Bechara, A., Damasio, A.R., Damasio, H., & Anderson, S.W. (1994). Insensitivity to future consequences following damage to human prefrontal cortex. Cognition, 50, 7-15. https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/8039375 https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0010-0277(94)90018-3 1994-45871-001."	108-114	"Yamamoto, Dorothy J; Reynolds, Jeremy; Krmpotich, Theodore; Banich, Marie T; Thompson, Laetitia; Tanabe, Jody"	English	"substance dependence is associated with impaired decision-making and altered frontostriatal- limbic activity. both greater and lesser brain activity have been reported in drug users compared to controls during decision-making. inconsistent results might be explained by group differences in the temporal profile of the functional magnetic resonance imaging (fmri) response. while most previous studies model a canonical hemodynamic response, a finite impulse response (fir) model measures fmri signal at discrete time points without assuming a temporal profile. we compared brain activity during decision-making and feedback in substance users and controls using two models: a canonical hemodynamic response function (hrf) and a fir model. 37 substance-dependent individuals (sdi) and 43 controls performed event-related decision-making during fmri scanning. brain activity was compared across group using canonical hrf and fir models. compared to controls, sdi were impaired at decision-making. the canonical hrf model showed that sdi had significantly greater fronto-striatal-limbic activity during decisions and less activity during feedback than controls. the fir model confirmed greater activity in sdi during decisions. however, lower activity in sdi during feedback corresponded to a lower post-stimulus undershoot of the hemodynamic response. greater activity in fronto-striatal-limbic pathways in sdi compared to controls is consistent with prior work, further supporting the hypothesis that abnormalities in these circuits underlie impaired decision-making. we demonstrate for the first time using fir analysis that lower activity during feedback may simply reflect the tail end of the hemodynamic response to decision, the post-stimulus undershoot, rather than an actual difference in feedback response."	10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2013.12.024	Decision Making; Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging; *Striatum; *Drug Dependency; *Temporal Lobe; *Limbic System	"Background: Substance dependence is associated with impaired decision-making and altered frontostriatal- limbic activity. Both greater and lesser brain activity have been reported in drug users compared to controls during decision-making. Inconsistent results might be explained by group differences in the temporal profile of the functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) response. While most previous studies model a canonical hemodynamic response, a finite impulse response (FIR) model measures fMRI signal at discrete time points without assuming a temporal profile. We compared brain activity during decision-making and feedback in substance users and controls using two models: a canonical hemodynamic response function (HRF) and a FIR model. Methods: 37 substance-dependent individuals (SDI) and 43 controls performed event-related decision-making during fMRI scanning. Brain activity was compared across group using canonical HRF and FIR models. Results: Compared to controls, SDI were impaired at decision-making. The canonical HRF model showed that SDI had significantly greater fronto-striatal-limbic activity during decisions and less activity during feedback than controls. The FIR model confirmed greater activity in SDI during decisions. However, lower activity in SDI during feedback corresponded to a lower post-stimulus undershoot of the hemodynamic response. Conclusions: Greater activity in fronto-striatal-limbic pathways in SDI compared to controls is consistent with prior work, further supporting the hypothesis that abnormalities in these circuits underlie impaired decision-making. We demonstrate for the first time using FIR analysis that lower activity during feedback may simply reflect the tail end of the hemodynamic response to decision, the post-stimulus undershoot, rather than an actual difference in feedback response. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	649	0	1	0	0	4	4	0	0	1	0	3	3	1	1	0	3	1	0	1	1
Decision-making in stimulant and opiate addicts in protracted abstinence: Evidence from computational modeling with pure users.	2014	Frontiers in Psychology		5	"Ahn, W.-Y., Busemeyer, J. R., Wagenmakers, E.-J., & Stout, J. C. (2008). Comparison of decision learning models using the generalization criterion method. Cogn. Sci. 32, 1376-1402 2009-11607-007. https://dx.doi.org/10.1080/03640210802352992 https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/21585458"		"Ahn, Woo-Young; Vasilev, Georgi; Lee, Sung-Ha; Busemeyer, Jerome R; Kruschke, John K; Bechara, Antoine; Vassileva, Jasmin"	English	"substance dependent individuals (sdi) often exhibit decision-making deficits; however, it remains unclear whether the nature of the underlying decision-making processes is the same in users of different classes of drugs and whether these deficits persist after discontinuation of drug use. we used computational modeling to address these questions in a unique sample of relatively ""pure"" amphetamine-dependent (n = 38) and heroin-dependent individuals (n = 43) who were currently in protracted abstinence, and in 48 healthy controls (hc). a bayesian model comparison technique, a simulation method, and parameter recovery tests were used to compare three cognitive models: (1) prospect valence learning with decay reinforcement learning rule (pvl-decayri), (2) pvl with delta learning rule (pvl-delta), and (3) value-plus-perseverance (vpp) model based on win-stay-lose-switch (wsls) strategy. the model comparison results indicated that the vpp model, a hybrid model of reinforcement learning (rl) and a heuristic strategy of perseverance had the best post-hoc model fit, but the two pvl models showed better simulation and parameter recovery performance. computational modeling results suggested that overall all three groups relied more on rl than on a wsls strategy. heroin users displayed reduced loss aversion relative to hc across all three models, which suggests that their decision-making deficits are longstanding (or pre-existing) and may be driven by reduced sensitivity to loss. in contrast, amphetamine users showed comparable cognitive functions to hc with the vpp model, whereas the second best-fitting model with relatively good simulation performance (pvl-decayri) revealed increased reward sensitivity relative to hc. these results suggest that some decision-making deficits persist in protracted abstinence and may be mediated by different mechanisms in opiate and stimulant users."	10.3389/fpsyg.2014.00849	Models; Computational Modeling; *Decision Making; *Opiates; *Drug Addiction; *Drug Abuse	"Substance dependent individuals (SDI) often exhibit decision-making deficits; however, it remains unclear whether the nature of the underlying decision-making processes is the same in users of different classes of drugs and whether these deficits persist after discontinuation of drug use. We used computational modeling to address these questions in a unique sample of relatively ""pure"" amphetamine-dependent (N = 38) and heroin-dependent individuals (N = 43) who were currently in protracted abstinence, and in 48 healthy controls (HC). A Bayesian model comparison technique, a simulation method, and parameter recovery tests were used to compare three cognitive models: (1) Prospect Valence Learning with decay reinforcement learning rule (PVL-DecayRI), (2) PVL with delta learning rule (PVL-Delta), and (3) Value-Plus-Perseverance (VPP) model based on Win-Stay-Lose-Switch (WSLS) strategy. The model comparison results indicated that the VPP model, a hybrid model of reinforcement learning (RL) and a heuristic strategy of perseverance had the best post-hoc model fit, but the two PVL models showed better simulation and parameter recovery performance. Computational modeling results suggested that overall all three groups relied more on RL than on a WSLS strategy. Heroin users displayed reduced loss aversion relative to HC across all three models, which suggests that their decision-making deficits are longstanding (or pre-existing) and may be driven by reduced sensitivity to loss. In contrast, amphetamine users showed comparable cognitive functions to HC with the VPP model, whereas the second best-fitting model with relatively good simulation performance (PVL-DecayRI) revealed increased reward sensitivity relative to HC. These results suggest that some decision-making deficits persist in protracted abstinence and may be mediated by different mechanisms in opiate and stimulant users. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	628	1	2	1	3	3	1	2	0	2	2	2	2	3	3	3	2	3	3	0	0
Computational mechanisms underlying latent value updating of unchosen actions.	2023	Sci Adv	2375-2548	9	42	eadi2704	"Ben-Artzi, Ido; Kessler, Yoav; Nicenboim, Bruno; Shahar, Nitzan"		": current studies suggest that individuals estimate the value of their choices based on observed feedback. here, we ask whether individuals also update the value of their unchosen actions, even when the associated feedback remains unknown. one hundred seventy-eight individuals completed a multi-armed bandit task, making choices to gain rewards. we found robust evidence suggesting latent value updating of unchosen actions based on the chosen action's outcome. computational modeling results suggested that this effect is mainly explained by a value updating mechanism whereby individuals integrate the outcome history for choosing an option with that of rejecting the alternative. properties of the deliberation (i.e., duration/difficulty) did not moderate the latent value updating of unchosen actions, suggesting that memory traces generated during deliberation might take a smaller role in this specific phenomenon than previously thought. we discuss the mechanisms facilitating credit assignment to unchosen actions and their implications for human decision-making.,"	10.1126/sciadv.adi2704		": Current studies suggest that individuals estimate the value of their choices based on observed feedback. Here, we ask whether individuals also update the value of their unchosen actions, even when the associated feedback remains unknown. One hundred seventy-eight individuals completed a multi-armed bandit task, making choices to gain rewards. We found robust evidence suggesting latent value updating of unchosen actions based on the chosen action's outcome. Computational modeling results suggested that this effect is mainly explained by a value updating mechanism whereby individuals integrate the outcome history for choosing an option with that of rejecting the alternative. Properties of the deliberation (i.e., duration/difficulty) did not moderate the latent value updating of unchosen actions, suggesting that memory traces generated during deliberation might take a smaller role in this specific phenomenon than previously thought. We discuss the mechanisms facilitating credit assignment to unchosen actions and their implications for human decision-making., Copyright (C) 2023 by the American Association for the Advancement of Science"	953	0	0	0	1	1	0	0	0	3	1	0	5	0	0	2	1	2	2	5	3
Reduced Neural Tracking of Prediction Error in Substance-Dependent Individuals	2013	AMERICAN JOURNAL OF PSYCHIATRY	0002-953X	170	11	1356-1363	"Tanabe, J; Reynolds, J; Krmpotich, T; Claus, E; Thompson, LL; Du, YP; Banich, MT"	English	"substance-dependent individuals make poor decisions on the iowa gambling task, a reward-related decision-making task that involves risk and uncertainty. task performance depends on several factors, including how sensitive individuals are to feedback and how well they learn based on such feedback. a physiological signal that guides decision making based on feedback is prediction error. the authors investigated whether disruptions in the neural systems underlying prediction error processing in substance-dependent individuals could account for decision-making performance on a modified iowa gambling task. thirty-two substance-dependent individuals and 30 healthy comparison subjects played a modified version of the iowa gambling task during mr scanning. trial-to-trial behavior and functional mri (fmri) blood-oxygen-level-dependent (bold) signal were analyzed using a computational model of prediction error based on internal expectancies. the authors investigated how well bold signal tracked prediction error in the striatum and the orbitofrontal cortex as well as over the whole brain in patients relative to comparison subjects. compared with healthy subjects, substance-dependent patients were less sensitive to loss compared with gain, made less consistent choices, and performed worse on the modified iowa gambling task. the ventral striatum and medial orbitofrontal cortex did not track prediction error as strongly in patients as in healthy subjects. weaker tracking of prediction error in substance-dependent relative to healthy individuals suggests that altered frontal-striatal error learning signals may underlie decision-making impairments in drug abusers. computational fmri may help bridge the knowledge gap between physiology and behavior to inform research aimed at substance abuse treatment."	10.1176/appi.ajp.2013.12091257	ADDICTION; DECISION-MAKING; DOPAMINE; DRUG-ABUSERS; FMRI; IMPULSIVENESS; IOWA GAMBLING TASK; ORBITOFRONTAL CORTEX; PREFRONTAL CORTEX; REWARD	"Objective: Substance-dependent individuals make poor decisions on the Iowa Gambling Task, a reward-related decision-making task that involves risk and uncertainty. Task performance depends on several factors, including how sensitive individuals are to feedback and how well they learn based on such feedback. A physiological signal that guides decision making based on feedback is prediction error. The authors investigated whether disruptions in the neural systems underlying prediction error processing in substance-dependent individuals could account for decision-making performance on a modified Iowa Gambling Task. Methods: Thirty-two substance-dependent individuals and 30 healthy comparison subjects played a modified version of the Iowa Gambling Task during MR scanning. Trial-to-trial behavior and functional MRI (fMRI) blood-oxygen-level-dependent (BOLD) signal were analyzed using a computational model of prediction error based on internal expectancies. The authors investigated how well BOLD signal tracked prediction error in the striatum and the orbitofrontal cortex as well as over the whole brain in patients relative to comparison subjects. Results: Compared with healthy subjects, substance-dependent patients were less sensitive to loss compared with gain, made less consistent choices, and performed worse on the modified Iowa Gambling Task. The ventral striatum and medial orbitofrontal cortex did not track prediction error as strongly in patients as in healthy subjects. Conclusions: Weaker tracking of prediction error in substance-dependent relative to healthy individuals suggests that altered frontal-striatal error learning signals may underlie decision-making impairments in drug abusers. Computational fMRI may help bridge the knowledge gap between physiology and behavior to inform research aimed at substance abuse treatment."	23	0	1	0	0	4	4	0	0	1	0	3	3	1	1	0	1	1	0	1	1
Decision-making in long-term cocaine users: Effects of a cash monetary contingency on Gambling task performance.	2009	Drug and Alcohol Dependence	0376-8716	102	3-Jan	95-101	"Vadhan, Nehal P; Hart, Carl L; Haney, Margaret; van Gorp, Wilfred G; Foltin, Richard W"	English	"the iowa gambling task, which typically incorporates hypothetical monetary earnings and losses for performance, has been widely used to measure decision-making in substance abusers. we examined the effects of a cash monetary contingency on gambling task performance in cocaine abusers and control participants. twenty-two long-term cocaine smokers who met dsm-iv criteria for cocaine dependence and 24 non-cocaine-using control participants completed this study. both groups were similar in terms of age, executive function, and self-reported alcohol and marijuana use. all participants performed the gambling task under two counterbalanced conditions: under one condition, earnings and losses were hypothetical, and under the other condition, earnings and losses were in cash. conditionxgroup interactions on card selection and task completion time were noted (p<0.05). under the hypothetical payment condition, cocaine abusers selected a greater proportion of cards from disadvantageous decks than advantageous decks (p<0.05), but took a similar amount of time to complete the task, relative to control participants. however, under the cash payment condition, no group differences were seen for card selection and cocaine abusers took more time than controls to complete the task (p<0.05). the application of tangible consequences improved the decision-making and effort of cocaine abusers on the gambling task, relative to control participants. these findings underscore the importance of considering population-specific factors (e.g., sensitivity to instructional vs. consequential control) when conducting neuropsychological research in substance abusers."	10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2009.02.003	*Gambling; *Decision Making; *Cocaine; Contingency Management; *Drug Abuse	"Background: The Iowa Gambling task, which typically incorporates hypothetical monetary earnings and losses for performance, has been widely used to measure decision-making in substance abusers. We examined the effects of a cash monetary contingency on Gambling task performance in cocaine abusers and control participants. Methods: Twenty-two long-term cocaine smokers who met DSM-IV criteria for cocaine dependence and 24 non-cocaine-using control participants completed this study. Both groups were similar in terms of age, executive function, and self-reported alcohol and marijuana use. All participants performed the Gambling task under two counterbalanced conditions: under one condition, earnings and losses were hypothetical, and under the other condition, earnings and losses were in cash. Results: Conditionxgroup interactions on card selection and task completion time were noted (p<0.05). Under the hypothetical payment condition, cocaine abusers selected a greater proportion of cards from disadvantageous decks than advantageous decks (p<0.05), but took a similar amount of time to complete the task, relative to control participants. However, under the cash payment condition, no group differences were seen for card selection and cocaine abusers took more time than controls to complete the task (p<0.05). Conclusions: The application of tangible consequences improved the decision-making and effort of cocaine abusers on the Gambling task, relative to control participants. These findings underscore the importance of considering population-specific factors (e.g., sensitivity to instructional vs. consequential control) when conducting neuropsychological research in substance abusers. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	846	0	1	0	0	4	4	0	0	1	0	3	3	1	1	0	3	1	0	1	5
"Ketamine use among regular tobacco and alcohol users as revealed by respondent-driven sampling in Taipei: Prevalence, expectancy, and users' risky decision making."	2013	Journal of Food & Drug Analysis	10219498	21		s102-s105	Wei J. Chen; Te-Tien Ting; Chao-Ming Chang; Ying-Chun Liu; Chuan-Yu Chen		"the popularity of ketamine for recreational use among young people began to increase, particularly in asia, in 2000. to gain more knowledge about the use of ketamine among high-risk individuals, a respondent-driven sampling (rds) was implemented among regular alcohol and tobacco users in the taipei metropolitan area from 2007 to 2010. the sampling was initiated in three different settings (i.e., 2 in the community and 1 in a clinic) to recruit seed individuals. each participant was asked to refer one to five friends known to be regular tobacco smokers and alcohol drinkers to participate in the present study. incentives were offered differentially upon the completion of an interview and successful referral. information pertaining to drug use experience was collected by an audio computer-assisted self-interview instrument. software built for rds analyses was used for data analyses. of the 1,115 participants recruited, about 11.7% of the rds respondents reported ever having used ketamine. positive expectancy of ketamine use was positively associated with ketamine use; by contrast, negative expectancy was inversely associated with ketamine use. decision-making characteristics as measured on the iowa gambling task (igt) using reinforcement learning models revealed that ketamine users learned less from the most recent event than both tobacco- and drug-nave controls and regular tobacco and alcohol users. these findings about ketamine use among young people have implications for its prevention and intervention."	10.1016/j.jfda.2013.09.044	Decision making; DESCRIPTIVE statistics; RESEARCH funding; RISK-taking behavior; DATA analysis software; FACTOR analysis; DECISION making; SUBSTANCE abuse; TOBACCO; NEUROPSYCHOLOGICAL tests; ALCOHOLISM; LOGISTIC regression analysis; SUBSTANCE abuse risk factors; TAIWAN; AUTOMATIC data collection systems; Expectancy; Ketamine; KETAMINE; ODDS ratio; Respondent-driven sampling (RDS)	"The popularity of ketamine for recreational use among young people began to increase, particularly in Asia, in 2000. To gain more knowledge about the use of ketamine among high-risk individuals, a respondent-driven sampling (RDS) was implemented among regular alcohol and tobacco users in the Taipei metropolitan area from 2007 to 2010. The sampling was initiated in three different settings (i.e., 2 in the community and 1 in a clinic) to recruit seed individuals. Each participant was asked to refer one to five friends known to be regular tobacco smokers and alcohol drinkers to participate in the present study. Incentives were offered differentially upon the completion of an interview and successful referral. Information pertaining to drug use experience was collected by an audio computer-assisted self-interview instrument. Software built for RDS analyses was used for data analyses. Of the 1,115 participants recruited, about 11.7% of the RDS respondents reported ever having used ketamine. Positive expectancy of ketamine use was positively associated with ketamine use; by contrast, negative expectancy was inversely associated with ketamine use. Decision-making characteristics as measured on the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) using reinforcement learning models revealed that ketamine users learned less from the most recent event than both tobacco- and drug-nave controls and regular tobacco and alcohol users. These findings about ketamine use among young people have implications for its prevention and intervention. [ABSTRACT FROM AUTHOR]"	2162	0	0	0	0	4	4	0	0	3	0	3	3	0	0	2	1	2	2	1	3
Age of onset of cannabis use and decision making under uncertainty	2018	PEERJ	2167-8359	6			"Alameda-Bailn, JR; Salguero-Alcaiz, P; Merchn-Clavellino, A; Pano-Uesada, S"	English	"cannabis, like other substances, negatively affects health, inducing respiratory problems and mental and cognitive alterations. memory and learning disorders, as well as executive dysfunctions, are also neuropsychological disorders associated to cannabis use. recent evidence reveals that cannabis use during adolescence may disrupt the normal development of the brain. this study is aimed to analyze possible differences between early-onset and late-onset cannabis consumers. method: we used a task based on a card game with four decks and different programs of gains/losses. a total of 72 subjects (19 women; 53 men) participated in the study; they were selected through a purposive sampling and divided into three groups: early-onset consumers, late-onset consumers, and control (nonconsumers). the task used was the ""cartas"" program (computerized version based on the iowa gambling task (igt)), with two versions: direct and inverse. the computational model ""prospect valence learning"" (pvl) was applied in order to describe the decision according to four characteristics: utility, loss aversion, recency, and consistency. the results evidence worst performance in the igt in the early-onset consumers as compared to late-onset consumers and control. differences between groups were also found in the pvl computational model parameters, since the process of decision making of the early-onset consumers was more influenced by the magnitude of the gains-losses, and more determined by short-term results without loss aversion. early onset cannabis use may involve decision-making problems, and therefore intervention programs are necessary in order to reduce the prevalence and delay the onset of cannabis use among teenagers."	10.7717/peerj.5201	Age of onset; Cannabis; Decision making; DEFICITS; FUTURE CONSEQUENCES; INDIVIDUALS; Iowa gambling task; IOWA-GAMBLING-TASK; MARIJUANA USERS; MODELS; PERFORMANCE; Prospect valence learning; REWARD; SOMATIC MARKER HYPOTHESIS; VENTROMEDIAL PREFRONTAL CORTEX	"Objective: Cannabis, like other substances, negatively affects health, inducing respiratory problems and mental and cognitive alterations. Memory and learning disorders, as well as executive dysfunctions, are also neuropsychological disorders associated to cannabis use. Recent evidence reveals that cannabis use during adolescence may disrupt the normal development of the brain. This study is aimed to analyze possible differences between early-onset and late-onset cannabis consumers. Method: We used a task based on a card game with four decks and different programs of gains/losses. A total of 72 subjects (19 women; 53 men) participated in the study; they were selected through a purposive sampling and divided into three groups: early-onset consumers, late-onset consumers, and control (nonconsumers). The task used was the ""Cartas"" program (computerized version based on the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT)), with two versions: direct and inverse. The computational model ""Prospect Valence Learning"" (PVL) was applied in order to describe the decision according to four characteristics: utility, loss aversion, recency, and consistency. Results: The results evidence worst performance in the IGT in the early-onset consumers as compared to late-onset consumers and control. Differences between groups were also found in the PVL computational model parameters, since the process of decision making of the early-onset consumers was more influenced by the magnitude of the gains-losses, and more determined by short-term results without loss aversion. Conclusions: Early onset cannabis use may involve decision-making problems, and therefore intervention programs are necessary in order to reduce the prevalence and delay the onset of cannabis use among teenagers."	21	0	1	0	0	4	4	1	1	0	3	1	0	2	2	5	4	5	5	1	2
Decision-making by patients with methamphetamine use disorder receiving contingency management treatment: Magnitude and frequency effects.	2020	Frontiers in Psychiatry		11	"Ahn, WY, Vasilev, G, Lee, SH, Busemeyer, JR, Kruschke, JK, & Bechara, A, et al. Decision-making in stimulant and opiate addicts in protracted abstinence: Evidence from computational modeling with pure users. Front Psychol (2014) 5:849 https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/25161631 https://dx.doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2014.00849 2014-38854-001."		"Lake, Marilyn T; Shoptaw, Steven; Ipser, Jonathan C; Takada, Sae; van Nunen, Lara J; Lipinska, Gosia; Stein, Dan J; London, Edythe D"	English	"individuals with substance use disorders exhibit maladaptive decision-making on the iowa gambling task (igt), which involves selecting from card decks differing in the magnitudes of rewards, and the frequency and magnitude of losses. we investigated whether baseline igt performance could predict responses to contingency management (cm) by treatment-seeking individuals with methamphetamine use disorder (ma use disorder) in cape town, south africa. twenty-nine individuals with ma use disorder underwent an 8-week, escalating reinforcement, voucher-based cm treatment in a study on the suitability of cm therapy for the south african context. along with 20 healthy control participants, they performed a computerized version of the igt before starting cm treatment. seventeen participants maintained abstinence from methamphetamine throughout the trial (full responders), and 12 had an incomplete response (partial responders). performance on the igt was scored for magnitude effect (selection of large immediate rewards with high long-term loss) and for frequency effect (preference for frequent rewards and avoidance of frequent losses). group differences were investigated using linear mixed-effect modeling. partial responders made more selections from decks providing large, immediate rewards and long-term losses than healthy controls [p = 0.038, g = -0.77 (-1.09: -0.44)]. full responders showed a greater, nonsignificant preference for frequent rewards and aversion to frequent losses than partial responders [p = 0.054, g = -0.63 (-0.95: -0.29)]. a predilection for choices based on the size and immediacy of reward may reflect a cognitive strategy that works against cm. pretesting with a decision-making task, such as the igt, may help in matching cognitive therapies to clients with ma use disorder."	10.3389/fpsyt.2020.00022	Rewards; *Methamphetamine; *Decision Making; *Substance Use Disorder; *Substance Use Treatment; *Contingency Management	"Background: Individuals with substance use disorders exhibit maladaptive decision-making on the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT), which involves selecting from card decks differing in the magnitudes of rewards, and the frequency and magnitude of losses. We investigated whether baseline IGT performance could predict responses to contingency management (CM) by treatment-seeking individuals with methamphetamine use disorder (MA Use Disorder) in Cape Town, South Africa. Methods: Twenty-nine individuals with MA Use Disorder underwent an 8-week, escalating reinforcement, voucher-based CM treatment in a study on the suitability of CM therapy for the South African context. Along with 20 healthy control participants, they performed a computerized version of the IGT before starting CM treatment. Seventeen participants maintained abstinence from methamphetamine throughout the trial (full responders), and 12 had an incomplete response (partial responders). Performance on the IGT was scored for magnitude effect (selection of large immediate rewards with high long-term loss) and for frequency effect (preference for frequent rewards and avoidance of frequent losses). Group differences were investigated using linear mixed-effect modeling. Results: Partial responders made more selections from decks providing large, immediate rewards and long-term losses than healthy controls [p = 0.038, g = -0.77 (-1.09: -0.44)]. Full responders showed a greater, nonsignificant preference for frequent rewards and aversion to frequent losses than partial responders [p = 0.054, g = -0.63 (-0.95: -0.29)]. Conclusions: A predilection for choices based on the size and immediacy of reward may reflect a cognitive strategy that works against CM. Pretesting with a decision-making task, such as the IGT, may help in matching cognitive therapies to clients with MA Use Disorder. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	269	0	1	2	2	2	2	0	0	1	0	4	4	1	1	0	0	4	1	4	7
Characterizing impulsivity in individuals with heroin use disorder.	2022	International Journal of Mental Health and Addiction	1557-1874		"Ahn, W.Y., Haines, N., and Zhang, L. (2017). Revealing neurocomputational mechanisms of reinforcement learning and decision-making with the hBayesDM package. Computational Psychiatry, 1, 24-57. https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/29601060 https://dx.doi.org/10.1162/CPSY_a_00002"	No-Specified	"Kang, Tiejun; Zhang, Yi; Zhao, Jing; Li, Xiaoyan; Jiang, Heng; Niu, Xiaotong; Xie, Renqian; Ding, Xiaobin; Steele, Vaughn R; Yuan, Ti-Fei"		"backgroundimpulsivity plays an essential role in substance use disorder. here we systemically investigated the features of multi-dimensional impulsivity in male individuals with heroin use disorder (hud). methodssixty-four male participants with hud were recruited from lanzhou drug rehabilitation hospital, and sixty-one male healthy controls (hcs) were recruited from the local community. the groups were compared using measures of trait (barratt impulsiveness scale, bis-11), motor (two-choice oddball task, tcot), and cognitive impulsivity (iowa gambling task, igt). the study also assessed the relationship between impulsivity measurements and clinical severity. resultsthe bis-11 score, tcot response time and accuracy (acc) cost were higher in participants with hud than in hcs, whereas the total net score of igt and tcot acc were lower in the former group. the acc cost positively correlated with craving and daily dosage. the support vector machine successfully distinguished participants with hud from hcs. k-fold cross-validation showed the prediction of craving by the three bis sub-components. conclusionshud was associated with changes in multi-dimensional impulsivity, differentiating participants with hud from hcs and predicting clinical severity."	10.1007/s11469-022-00941-8		"BackgroundImpulsivity plays an essential role in substance use disorder. Here we systemically investigated the features of multi-dimensional impulsivity in male individuals with heroin use disorder (HUD). MethodsSixty-four male participants with HUD were recruited from Lanzhou Drug Rehabilitation Hospital, and sixty-one male healthy controls (HCs) were recruited from the local community. The groups were compared using measures of trait (Barratt Impulsiveness Scale, BIS-11), motor (Two-choice Oddball Task, TCOT), and cognitive impulsivity (Iowa Gambling Task, IGT). The study also assessed the relationship between impulsivity measurements and clinical severity. ResultsThe BIS-11 score, TCOT response time and accuracy (ACC) cost were higher in participants with HUD than in HCs, whereas the total net score of IGT and TCOT ACC were lower in the former group. The ACC cost positively correlated with craving and daily dosage. The support vector machine successfully distinguished participants with HUD from HCs. K-fold cross-validation showed the prediction of craving by the three BIS sub-components. ConclusionsHUD was associated with changes in multi-dimensional impulsivity, differentiating participants with HUD from HCs and predicting clinical severity. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2022 APA, all rights reserved)"	165	0	1	0	0	4	4	0	0	1	0	3	3	1	1	0	0	4	1	1	7
"Neurocognitive and psychiatric dimensions of hot, but not cool, impulsivity predict HIV sexual risk behaviors among drug users in protracted abstinence."	2016	The American Journal of Drug and Alcohol Abuse	0095-2990	42	2	231-241	"Wilson, Michael J; Vassileva, Jasmin"	English	"impulsivity is an important risk factor for hiv risky drug and sexual behaviors. research identifies hot (i.e. affectively-mediated, reward-based) and cool (motoric, attentional, independent of context) neurocognitive and psychiatric dimensions of impulsivity, though the impact of specific drugs of abuse on these varieties of impulsivity remains an open question. the present study examined the associations of neurocognitive and psychiatric varieties of hot and cool impulsivity with measures of lifetime and recent sexual risk behaviors among users of different classes of drugs. the study sample was comprised of drug users in protracted (> 1 year) abstinence: heroin mono-dependent (n = 61), amphetamine mono-dependent (n = 44), and polysubstance dependent (n = 73). hot impulsivity was operationalized via neurocognitive tasks of reward-based decision-making and symptoms of psychopathy. cool impulsivity was operationalized via neurocognitive tasks of response inhibition and symptoms of attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (adhd). hot impulsivity was associated with sexual risk behaviors among heroin and amphetamine users in protracted abstinence, whereas cool impulsivity was not associated with sexual risk behaviors among any drug-using group. neurocognitive hot impulsivity was associated with recent (past 30-day) sexual risk behaviors, whereas psychopathy was associated with sexual risk behaviors during more remote time-periods (past 6 month and lifetime) and mediated the association between heroin dependence and past 6-month sexual risk behaviors. conclusion: assessments and interventions aimed at reducing sexual risk behaviors among drug users should focus on hot neurocognitive and psychiatric dimensions of impulsivity, such as decision-making and psychopathy. cool dimensions of impulsivity such as response inhibition and adhd were not related to sexual risk behaviors among drug users in protracted abstinence."	10.3109/00952990.2015.1121269	HIV; *Risk Factors; *Impulsiveness; *Neurocognition; *Drug Dependency; *Drug Abstinence; Psychiatric Evaluation	"Background: Impulsivity is an important risk factor for HIV risky drug and sexual behaviors. Research identifies hot (i.e. affectively-mediated, reward-based) and cool (motoric, attentional, independent of context) neurocognitive and psychiatric dimensions of impulsivity, though the impact of specific drugs of abuse on these varieties of impulsivity remains an open question. Objectives: The present study examined the associations of neurocognitive and psychiatric varieties of hot and cool impulsivity with measures of lifetime and recent sexual risk behaviors among users of different classes of drugs. Methods: The study sample was comprised of drug users in protracted (> 1 year) abstinence: heroin mono-dependent (n = 61), amphetamine mono-dependent (n = 44), and polysubstance dependent (n = 73). Hot impulsivity was operationalized via neurocognitive tasks of reward-based decision-making and symptoms of psychopathy. Cool impulsivity was operationalized via neurocognitive tasks of response inhibition and symptoms of attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Results: Hot impulsivity was associated with sexual risk behaviors among heroin and amphetamine users in protracted abstinence, whereas cool impulsivity was not associated with sexual risk behaviors among any drug-using group. Neurocognitive hot impulsivity was associated with recent (past 30-day) sexual risk behaviors, whereas psychopathy was associated with sexual risk behaviors during more remote time-periods (past 6 month and lifetime) and mediated the association between heroin dependence and past 6-month sexual risk behaviors. Conclusion: Assessments and interventions aimed at reducing sexual risk behaviors among drug users should focus on hot neurocognitive and psychiatric dimensions of impulsivity, such as decision-making and psychopathy. Cool dimensions of impulsivity such as response inhibition and ADHD were not related to sexual risk behaviors among drug users in protracted abstinence. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	494	0	1	2	2	2	2	0	0	1	0	3	3	1	1	0	0	4	1	8	7
Negative reinforcement learning is affected in substance dependence.	2012	Drug and Alcohol Dependence	0376-8716	123	3-Jan	84-90	"Thompson, Laetitia L; Claus, Eric D; Mikulich-Gilbertson, Susan K; Banich, Marie T; Crowley, Thomas; Krmpotich, Theodore; Miller, David; Tanabe, Jody"	English	"negative reinforcement results in behavior to escape or avoid an aversive outcome. withdrawal symptoms are purported to be negative reinforcers in perpetuating substance dependence, but little is known about negative reinforcement learning in this population. the purpose of this study was to examine reinforcement learning in substance dependent individuals (sdi), with an emphasis on assessing negative reinforcement learning. we modified the iowa gambling task to separately assess positive and negative reinforcement. we hypothesized that sdi would show differences in negative reinforcement learning compared to controls and we investigated whether learning differed as a function of the relative magnitude or frequency of the reinforcer. thirty subjects dependent on psychostimulants were compared with 28 community controls on a decision making task that manipulated outcome frequencies and magnitudes and required an action to avoid a negative outcome. sdi did not learn to avoid negative outcomes to the same degree as controls. this difference was driven by the magnitude, not the frequency, of negative feedback. in contrast, approach behaviors in response to positive reinforcement were similar in both groups. our findings are consistent with a specific deficit in negative reinforcement learning in sdi. sdi were relatively insensitive to the magnitude, not frequency, of loss. if this generalizes to drug-related stimuli, it suggests that repeated episodes of withdrawal may drive relapse more than the severity of a single episode."	10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2011.10.017	Decision Making; Learning; *Drug Dependency; *CNS Stimulating Drugs; *Negative Reinforcement	"Background: Negative reinforcement results in behavior to escape or avoid an aversive outcome. Withdrawal symptoms are purported to be negative reinforcers in perpetuating substance dependence, but little is known about negative reinforcement learning in this population. The purpose of this study was to examine reinforcement learning in substance dependent individuals (SDI), with an emphasis on assessing negative reinforcement learning. We modified the Iowa Gambling Task to separately assess positive and negative reinforcement. We hypothesized that SDI would show differences in negative reinforcement learning compared to controls and we investigated whether learning differed as a function of the relative magnitude or frequency of the reinforcer. Methods: Thirty subjects dependent on psychostimulants were compared with 28 community controls on a decision making task that manipulated outcome frequencies and magnitudes and required an action to avoid a negative outcome. Results: SDI did not learn to avoid negative outcomes to the same degree as controls. This difference was driven by the magnitude, not the frequency, of negative feedback. In contrast, approach behaviors in response to positive reinforcement were similar in both groups. Conclusions: Our findings are consistent with a specific deficit in negative reinforcement learning in SDI. SDI were relatively insensitive to the magnitude, not frequency, of loss. If this generalizes to drug-related stimuli, it suggests that repeated episodes of withdrawal may drive relapse more than the severity of a single episode. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	732	0	1	0	0	4	4	0	0	1	0	3	3	1	1	0	1	2	2	1	1
Application of a computational decision model to examine acute drug effects on human risk taking.	2006	Experimental and Clinical Psychopharmacology	1064-1297	14	2	254-264	"Lane, Scott D; Yechiam, Eldad; Busemeyer, Jerome R"	English	"in 3 previous experiments, high doses of alcohol, marijuana, and alprazolam acutely increased risky decision making by adult humans in a 2-choice (risky vs. nonrisky) laboratory task. in this study, a computational modeling analysis known as the expectancy valence model (j. r. busemeyer & j. c. stout, 2002) was applied to individual-participant data from these studies, for the highest administered dose of all 3 drugs and corresponding placebo doses, to determine changes in decision-making processes that may be uniquely engendered by each drug. the model includes 3 parameters: responsiveness to rewards and losses (valence or motivation); the rate of updating expectancies about the value of risky alternatives (learning/memory); and the consistency with which trial-by-trial choices match expected outcomes (sensitivity). parameter estimates revealed 3 key outcomes: alcohol increased responsiveness to risky rewards and decreased responsiveness to risky losses (motivation) but did not alter expectancy updating (learning/memory); both marijuana and alprazolam produced increases in risk taking that were related to learning/memory but not motivation; and alcohol and marijuana (but not alprazolam) produced more random response patterns that were less consistently related to expected outcomes on the 2 choices. no significant main effects of gender or dose by gender interactions were obtained, but 2 dose by gender interactions approached significance. these outcomes underscore the utility of using a computational modeling approach to deconstruct decision-making processes and thus better understand drug effects on risky decision making in humans."	10.1037/1064-1297.14.2.254	Models; *Decision Making; *Risk Taking; *Alcohols; *Marijuana; *Alprazolam	"In 3 previous experiments, high doses of alcohol, marijuana, and alprazolam acutely increased risky decision making by adult humans in a 2-choice (risky vs. nonrisky) laboratory task. In this study, a computational modeling analysis known as the expectancy valence model (J. R. Busemeyer & J. C. Stout, 2002) was applied to individual-participant data from these studies, for the highest administered dose of all 3 drugs and corresponding placebo doses, to determine changes in decision-making processes that may be uniquely engendered by each drug. The model includes 3 parameters: responsiveness to rewards and losses (valence or motivation); the rate of updating expectancies about the value of risky alternatives (learning/memory); and the consistency with which trial-by-trial choices match expected outcomes (sensitivity). Parameter estimates revealed 3 key outcomes: Alcohol increased responsiveness to risky rewards and decreased responsiveness to risky losses (motivation) but did not alter expectancy updating (learning/memory); both marijuana and alprazolam produced increases in risk taking that were related to learning/memory but not motivation; and alcohol and marijuana (but not alprazolam) produced more random response patterns that were less consistently related to expected outcomes on the 2 choices. No significant main effects of gender or dose by gender interactions were obtained, but 2 dose by gender interactions approached significance. These outcomes underscore the utility of using a computational modeling approach to deconstruct decision-making processes and thus better understand drug effects on risky decision making in humans. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	910	0	1	0	0	0	3	0	0	1	0	3	3	0	0	1	1	2	2	3	3
Orbitofrontal cortex thickness and substance use disorders in emerging adulthood: causal inferences from a co_twin control/discordant twin study.	2021	Addiction	9652140	116	9	2548-2558	" hunt, rh;  hunt, ruskin h.;  iacono, wg;  iacono, william g.;  malone, sm;  malone, stephen m.;  thomas, kathleen m.;  thomas, km;  wilson, s;  wilson, sylia; harper, j; harper, jeremy"		"research linking orbitofrontal cortex (ofc) structure and substance use disorders (suds) is largely correlational and often implies a causal effect of addiction/substance exposure on the brain, but familial risk factors (e.g. genetic liability) may confound these associations. we tested whether associations between alcohol, cannabis and tobacco use disorders and ofc thickness reflected the potential causal effects of familial risk or suds_related consequences (e.g. substance exposure). design a co_twin control/discordant twin design separated familial risk confounding from sud_related consequences. setting/participants: a population_based sample of 436 24_year_old twins (62% monozygotic) from the minnesota twin family study, usa. measurements alcohol, cannabis and tobacco use disorders were assessed using the composite international diagnostic interviewsubstance abuse module. cortical thickness of the medial and lateral ofc (mofc and lofc, respectively) was assessed using magnetic resonance imaging (mri). findings lower mofc (p_values  0.006) but not lofc (p_values  0.190) thickness was observed in diagnosed individuals (n = 185) relative to non_sud controls (n = 251). co_twin control analyses offered evidence that mofc associations were consistent with familial risk across suds (between_pair effect: p_values  0.047) and the independent consequences of having an alcohol or cannabis use disorder (within_pair effect: p_values  0.024). that is, within alcohol/cannabis discordant twin pairs, affected twins had significantly lower mofc thickness compared with their unaffected co_twins. a confounder_adjusted analysis of the minnesota twin family study appeared to indicate that, beyond a substance use disorders general familial risk effect, the experience of an alcohol or cannabis use disorder in emerging adulthood reduces the thickness of the medial orbitofrontal cortex, a region associated with value_guided decision_making."	10.1111/add.15447	 alcohol;  attribution (social psychology);  brain anatomy;  brain cortical thickness;  cannabis;  cannabis (genus);  co-twin control analysis;  co_twin control analysis;  comparative studies;  discordant twin design;  emerging adulthood;  endophenotype;  ethanol;  genetics of disease susceptibility;  magnetic resonance imaging;  orbitofrontal cortex;  prefrontal cortex;  substance abuse;  substance use disorders;  tobacco;  twins; addiction	"Background/aims: Research linking orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) structure and substance use disorders (SUDs) is largely correlational and often implies a causal effect of addiction/substance exposure on the brain, but familial risk factors (e.g. genetic liability) may confound these associations. We tested whether associations between alcohol, cannabis and tobacco use disorders and OFC thickness reflected the potential causal effects of familial risk or SUDs_related consequences (e.g. substance exposure). Design A co_twin control/discordant twin design separated familial risk confounding from SUD_related consequences. Setting/participants: A population_based sample of 436 24_year_old twins (62% monozygotic) from the Minnesota Twin Family Study, USA. Measurements Alcohol, cannabis and tobacco use disorders were assessed using the Composite International Diagnostic InterviewSubstance Abuse Module. Cortical thickness of the medial and lateral OFC (mOFC and lOFC, respectively) was assessed using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Findings Lower mOFC (P_values  0.006) but not lOFC (P_values  0.190) thickness was observed in diagnosed individuals (n = 185) relative to non_SUD controls (n = 251). Co_twin control analyses offered evidence that mOFC associations were consistent with familial risk across SUDs (between_pair effect: P_values  0.047) and the independent consequences of having an alcohol or cannabis use disorder (within_pair effect: P_values  0.024). That is, within alcohol/cannabis discordant twin pairs, affected twins had significantly lower mOFC thickness compared with their unaffected co_twins. Conclusions: A confounder_adjusted analysis of the Minnesota Twin Family Study appeared to indicate that, beyond a substance use disorders general familial risk effect, the experience of an alcohol or cannabis use disorder in emerging adulthood reduces the thickness of the medial orbitofrontal cortex, a region associated with value_guided decision_making. [ABSTRACT FROM AUTHOR]"	2929	0	1	2	2	2	2	0	0	1	0	4	4	1	1	0	0	4	1	4	7
Reward-based learning as a function of severity of substance abuse risk in drug-naive youth with ADHD.	2018	Journal of Child and Adolescent Psychopharmacology	1044-5463	28	8	547-553	"Parvaz, Muhammad A; Kim, Kristen; Froudist-Walsh, Sean; Newcorn, Jeffrey H; Ivanov, Iliyan"	English	"attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (adhd) is associated with elevated risk for later development of substance use disorders (sud), specifically because youth with adhd, similar to individuals with sud, exhibit deficits in learning abilities and reward processing. another known risk factor for sud is familial history of substance dependence. youth with familial sud history show reward processing deficits, higher prevalence of externalizing disorders, and higher impulsivity scores. thus, the main objective of this proof-of-concept study is to investigate whether risk loading (adhd and parental substance use) for developing sud in drug-naive youth impacts reward-related learning. forty-one drug-naive youth, stratified into three groups: healthy controls (hc, n = 13; neither adhd nor parental sud), low risk (lr, n = 13; adhd only), and high risk (hr, n = 15; adhd and parental sud), performed a novel anticipation, conflict, and reward (acr) task. in addition to conventional reaction time (rt) and accuracy analyses, we analyzed computational variables including learning rates and assessed the influence of learned predictions of reward probability and stimulus congruency on rt. the multivariate anova on learning rate, congruence, and prediction revealed a significant main group effect across these variables [f(3, 37) = 3.79, p = 0.018]. there were significant linear effects for learning rate (contrast estimate = 0.181, p = 0.038) and the influence of stimulus congruency on rts (contrast estimate = 1.16, p = 0.017). post hoc comparisons revealed that hr youth showed the most significant deficits in accuracy and learning rates, while stimulus congruency had a lower impact on rts in this group. lr youth showed scores between those of the hc and hr youth. conclusion: these preliminary results suggest that deficits in learning and in adjusting to task difficulty are a function of increasing risk loading for sud in drug-naive youth. these results also highlight the importance of developing and applying computational models to study intricate details in behavior that typical analytic methodology may not be sensitive to."	10.1089/cap.2018.0010	*Rewards; *Learning; *Risk Factors; *Attention Deficit Disorder with Hyperactivity; *Drug Abuse	"Objective: Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is associated with elevated risk for later development of substance use disorders (SUD), specifically because youth with ADHD, similar to individuals with SUD, exhibit deficits in learning abilities and reward processing. Another known risk factor for SUD is familial history of substance dependence. Youth with familial SUD history show reward processing deficits, higher prevalence of externalizing disorders, and higher impulsivity scores. Thus, the main objective of this proof-of-concept study is to investigate whether risk loading (ADHD and parental substance use) for developing SUD in drug-naive youth impacts reward-related learning. Methods: Forty-one drug-naive youth, stratified into three groups: Healthy Controls (HC, n = 13; neither ADHD nor parental SUD), Low Risk (LR, n = 13; ADHD only), and High Risk (HR, n = 15; ADHD and parental SUD), performed a novel Anticipation, Conflict, and Reward (ACR) task. In addition to conventional reaction time (RT) and accuracy analyses, we analyzed computational variables including learning rates and assessed the influence of learned predictions of reward probability and stimulus congruency on RT. Results: The multivariate ANOVA on learning rate, congruence, and prediction revealed a significant main Group effect across these variables [F(3, 37) = 3.79, p = 0.018]. There were significant linear effects for learning rate (Contrast Estimate = 0.181, p = 0.038) and the influence of stimulus congruency on RTs (Contrast Estimate = 1.16, p = 0.017). Post hoc comparisons revealed that HR youth showed the most significant deficits in accuracy and learning rates, while stimulus congruency had a lower impact on RTs in this group. LR youth showed scores between those of the HC and HR youth. Conclusion: These preliminary results suggest that deficits in learning and in adjusting to task difficulty are a function of increasing risk loading for SUD in drug-naive youth. These results also highlight the importance of developing and applying computational models to study intricate details in behavior that typical analytic methodology may not be sensitive to. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2022 APA, all rights reserved)"	352	0	1	2	2	2	2	0	0	1	0	4	4	1	1	0	0	4	1	4	7
"Direct and indirect relationships between Factor 2 psychopathy, behavioral activation, positive alcohol expectancies, and alcohol use."	2015	Personality and Individual Differences	0191-8869	87	"Bechara, A., Damasio, A.R., Damasio, H., & Anderson, S.W. (1994). Insensitivity to future consequence following damage to human prefrontal cortex. Cognition, 50, 7-15. https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/8039375 https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0010-0277(94)90018-3 1994-45871-001."	261-266	"LaLiberte, Benjamin V; Grekin, Emily R"	English	"there is a well-established relationship between factor 2 psychopathy and heavy alcohol use. very few studies, however, have examined potential mediators of this relationship. as a result, it is difficult to develop intervention strategies that target early steps in the psychopathy/alcohol use pathway. the present study tested two structural equation models linking factor 2 psychopathy to alcohol use through the influence of both behavioral activation and positive alcohol expectancies in a sample of college undergraduates (n = 196). the study was also one of the first to utilize both self-report and laboratory measures of behavioral activation. findings indicate that both behavioral activation (as assessed by self-report but not laboratory measures) and positive alcohol expectancies fully account for the relationship between factor 2 psychopathy and alcohol use."	10.1016/j.paid.2015.08.023	*Psychopathy; *Behavior Problems; *Alcohols; *Structural Equation Modeling; Relationship Quality	"There is a well-established relationship between Factor 2 psychopathy and heavy alcohol use. Very few studies, however, have examined potential mediators of this relationship. As a result, it is difficult to develop intervention strategies that target early steps in the psychopathy/alcohol use pathway. The present study tested two structural equation models linking Factor 2 psychopathy to alcohol use through the influence of both behavioral activation and positive alcohol expectancies in a sample of college undergraduates (N = 196). The study was also one of the first to utilize both self-report and laboratory measures of behavioral activation. Findings indicate that both behavioral activation (as assessed by self-report but not laboratory measures) and positive alcohol expectancies fully account for the relationship between Factor 2 psychopathy and alcohol use. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	546	0	0	0	0	4	4	0	0	3	0	3	3	1	1	0	3	1	0	1	6
Effects of methadone maintenance treatment on decision-making processes in heroin-abusers: A cognitive modeling analysis.	2010	Basic and Clinical Neuroscience	2008-126X	1	3	44-49	"Khodadadi, Arash; Dezfouli, Amir; Fakhari, Pegah; Ekhtiari, Hamed"	English	"background & although decision-making processes have become a principal target of study among addiction researchers, few researches are published according to effects of different treatment methods on the cognitive processes underlying decision making up to now. utilizing cognitive modeling method, in this paper we examine the effects of methadone maintenance treatment (mmt) on cognitive processes underlying decision-making disorders in heroin-abusers. materials & for this purpose, for the first time, we use the balloon analog risk task (bart) to assess the decision-making ability of heroin-abusers before and after treatment and compare it to the non heroin-dependent subjects. results demonstrate that heroin-abusers show more risky behavior than other groups. but, there is no difference between the performance of heroin-abusers after 6 months of mmt and control group. modeling subjects' behavior in bart reveals that poor performance in heroin-abusers is due to reward-dependency and insensitivity to evaluation. conclusion: results show that 6 months of mmt decreases reward-dependency and increases sensitivity to evaluation."		*Decision Making; *Methadone Maintenance; *Heroin; Cognitive Control; *Drug Abuse	"Background & Objective: Although decision-making processes have become a principal target of study among addiction researchers, few researches are published according to effects of different treatment methods on the cognitive processes underlying decision making up to now. Utilizing cognitive modeling method, in this paper we examine the effects of Methadone maintenance treatment (MMT) on cognitive processes underlying decision-making disorders in heroin-abusers. Materials & Methods: For this purpose, for the first time, we use the balloon analog risk task (BART) to assess the decision-making ability of heroin-abusers before and after treatment and compare it to the non heroin-dependent subjects. Results: Results demonstrate that heroin-abusers show more risky behavior than other groups. But, there is no difference between the performance of heroin-abusers after 6 months of MMT and control group. Modeling subjects' behavior in BART reveals that poor performance in heroin-abusers is due to reward-dependency and insensitivity to evaluation. Conclusion: Results show that 6 months of MMT decreases reward-dependency and increases sensitivity to evaluation. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	804	0	0	0	0	4	4	0	0	3	0	3	3	0	0	2	1	2	2	1	3
Exploration versus exploitation decisions in the human brain: A systematic review of functional neuroimaging and neuropsychological studies.	2024	Neuropsychologia	0028-3932	192	"Addicott, M.A., Pearson, J.M., Froeliger, B., Platt, M.L., & McClernon, F.J. (2014). Smoking automaticity and tolerance moderate brain activation during explore-exploit behavior. Psychiatr. Res. 224, 254-261. https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/25453166 https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.pscychresns.2014.10.014 2014-53114-001."	13-Jan	"Wyatt, Lindsay E; Hewan, Patrick A; Hogeveen, Jeremy; Spreng, R. Nathan; Turner, Gary R"	English	"thoughts and actions are often driven by a decision to either explore new avenues with unknown outcomes, or to exploit known options with predictable outcomes. yet, the neural mechanisms underlying this exploration-exploitation trade-off in humans remain poorly understood. this is attributable to variability in the operationalization of exploration and exploitation as psychological constructs, as well as the heterogeneity of experimental protocols and paradigms used to study these choice behaviours. to address this gap, here we present a comprehensive review of the literature to investigate the neural basis of explore-exploit decision-making in humans. we first conducted a systematic review of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fmri) studies of exploration-versus exploitation-based decision-making in healthy adult humans during foraging, reinforcement learning, and information search. eleven fmri studies met inclusion criterion for this review. adopting a network neuroscience framework, synthesis of the findings across these studies revealed that exploration-based choice was associated with the engagement of attentional, control, and salience networks. in contrast, exploitation-based choice was associated with engagement of default network brain regions. we interpret these results in the context of a network architecture that supports the flexible switching between externally and internally directed cognitive processes, necessary for adaptive, goal-directed behaviour. to further investigate potential neural mechanisms underlying the exploration-exploitation trade-off we next surveyed studies involving neurodevelopmental, neuropsychological, and neuropsychiatric disorders, as well as lifespan development, and neurodegenerative diseases. we observed striking differences in patterns of explore-exploit decision-making across these populations, again suggesting that these two decision-making modes are supported by independent neural circuits. taken together, our review highlights the need for precision-mapping of the neural circuitry and behavioural correlates associated with exploration and exploitation in humans. characterizing exploration versus exploitation decision-making biases may offer a novel, trans-diagnostic approach to assessment, surveillance, and intervention for cognitive decline and dysfunction in normal development and clinical populations."	10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2023.108740	*Decision Making; *Neuroimaging; *Biological Neural Networks; *Default Mode Network	"Thoughts and actions are often driven by a decision to either explore new avenues with unknown outcomes, or to exploit known options with predictable outcomes. Yet, the neural mechanisms underlying this exploration-exploitation trade-off in humans remain poorly understood. This is attributable to variability in the operationalization of exploration and exploitation as psychological constructs, as well as the heterogeneity of experimental protocols and paradigms used to study these choice behaviours. To address this gap, here we present a comprehensive review of the literature to investigate the neural basis of explore-exploit decision-making in humans. We first conducted a systematic review of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies of exploration-versus exploitation-based decision-making in healthy adult humans during foraging, reinforcement learning, and information search. Eleven fMRI studies met inclusion criterion for this review. Adopting a network neuroscience framework, synthesis of the findings across these studies revealed that exploration-based choice was associated with the engagement of attentional, control, and salience networks. In contrast, exploitation-based choice was associated with engagement of default network brain regions. We interpret these results in the context of a network architecture that supports the flexible switching between externally and internally directed cognitive processes, necessary for adaptive, goal-directed behaviour. To further investigate potential neural mechanisms underlying the exploration-exploitation trade-off we next surveyed studies involving neurodevelopmental, neuropsychological, and neuropsychiatric disorders, as well as lifespan development, and neurodegenerative diseases. We observed striking differences in patterns of explore-exploit decision-making across these populations, again suggesting that these two decision-making modes are supported by independent neural circuits. Taken together, our review highlights the need for precision-mapping of the neural circuitry and behavioural correlates associated with exploration and exploitation in humans. Characterizing exploration versus exploitation decision-making biases may offer a novel, trans-diagnostic approach to assessment, surveillance, and intervention for cognitive decline and dysfunction in normal development and clinical populations. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2024 APA, all rights reserved)"	89	0	0	0	0	0	3	0	0	3	0	3	3	0	0	2	1	2	2	3	3
Analysis of decision-making processes in drug-abusers before and after maintenance treatment with methadone.	2010	Advances in Cognitive Science	1561-4174	12	"1, 45"	26-42	"Khodadadi, Arash; Keramati, Mohammad Mahdi; Dezfouli, Amir; Safaie, Houman; Ekhtiari, Hamed"	Farsi (Iranian)	"the aim of this study is to assess risk taking in opioid dependents and to analyze the effect of methadone maintenance treatment (mmt) on the improvement of cognitive structure of possible disorders, using computational modeling method: in this research the decision making processes of five groups of participants (male controls, female controls, opioid dependents before treatment, dependents after three months of mmt and dependents after six months of mmt) were analyzed using persian computer based version of balloon analogue risk task. results obtained from the test scores showed that the function of male and female controls do not differ significantly, however riskful decision making in dependents before treatment, is higher than that of male controls. also, the degree of risk taking of dependents after six months of treatment, was lower in comparison with other groups of dependents. therefore, mmt could affect the amelioration of the imbalance in risk taking behavior. in this study, we used cognitive modeling in order to describe different decision making processes to explore the causes of differential functioning among groups. conclusion: analysis of estimated parameters demonstrate that imbalance in reward dependence generates risk taking behaviors in the drug abuser group. in addition, this group pays less attention to their evaluation of choices; hence, a more haphazard behavior. on the other hand, the control group chooses the alternatives that considers more valuable based on the evaluation of gains and losses."		*Decision Making; *Methadone Maintenance; *Risk Taking; *Drug Abuse; *Drug Dependency; Opiates	"Objective: The aim of this study is to assess risk taking in opioid dependents and to analyze the effect of methadone maintenance treatment (MMT) on the improvement of cognitive structure of possible disorders, using computational modeling methods. Method: In this research the decision making processes of five groups of participants (male controls, female controls, opioid dependents before treatment, dependents after three months of MMT and dependents after six months of MMT) were analyzed using Persian computer based version of balloon analogue risk task. Results: Results obtained from the test scores showed that the function of male and female controls do not differ significantly, however riskful decision making in dependents before treatment, is higher than that of male controls. Also, the degree of risk taking of dependents after six months of treatment, was lower in comparison with other groups of dependents. Therefore, MMT could affect the amelioration of the imbalance in risk taking behavior. In this study, we used cognitive modeling in order to describe different decision making processes to explore the causes of differential functioning among groups. Conclusion: Analysis of estimated parameters demonstrate that imbalance in reward dependence generates risk taking behaviors in the drug abuser group. In addition, this group pays less attention to their evaluation of choices; hence, a more haphazard behavior. On the other hand, the control group chooses the alternatives that considers more valuable based on the evaluation of gains and losses. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	803	0	1	0	0	4	4	0	0	1	0	3	3	0	0	2	1	4	1	1	7
Impaired decision-making and brain shrinkage in alcoholism.	2014	European Psychiatry	0924-9338	29	3	125-133	"Le Berre, A.-P; Rauchs, G; La Joie, R; Mezenge, F; Boudehent, C; Vabret, F; Segobin, S; Viader, F; Allain, P; Eustache, F; Pitel, A.-L; Beaunieux, H"	English	"alcohol-dependent individuals usually favor instant gratification of alcohol use and ignore its long-term negative consequences, reflecting impaired decision-making. according to the somatic marker hypothesis, decision-making abilities are subtended by an extended brain network. as chronic alcohol consumption is known to be associated with brain shrinkage in this network, the present study investigated relationships between brain shrinkage and decision-making impairments in alcohol-dependent individuals early in abstinence using voxel-based morphometry. thirty patients performed the iowa gambling task and underwent a magnetic resonance imaging investigation (1.5t). decision-making performances and brain data were compared with those of age-matched healthy controls. in the alcoholic group, a multiple regression analysis was conducted with two predictors (gray matter [gm] volume and decision-making measure) and two covariates (number of withdrawals and duration of alcoholism). compared with controls, alcoholics had impaired decision-making and widespread reduced gray matter volume, especially in regions involved in decision-making. the regression analysis revealed links between high gm volume in the ventromedial prefrontal cortex, dorsal anterior cingulate cortex and right hippocampal formation, and high decision-making scores (p < 0.001, uncorrected). decision-making deficits in alcoholism may result from impairment of both emotional and cognitive networks."	10.1016/j.eurpsy.2012.10.002	Decision Making; Magnetic Resonance Imaging; *Brain Damage; *Alcoholism; Gray Matter	"Alcohol-dependent individuals usually favor instant gratification of alcohol use and ignore its long-term negative consequences, reflecting impaired decision-making. According to the somatic marker hypothesis, decision-making abilities are subtended by an extended brain network. As chronic alcohol consumption is known to be associated with brain shrinkage in this network, the present study investigated relationships between brain shrinkage and decision-making impairments in alcohol-dependent individuals early in abstinence using voxel-based morphometry. Thirty patients performed the Iowa Gambling Task and underwent a magnetic resonance imaging investigation (1.5T). Decision-making performances and brain data were compared with those of age-matched healthy controls. In the alcoholic group, a multiple regression analysis was conducted with two predictors (gray matter [GM] volume and decision-making measure) and two covariates (number of withdrawals and duration of alcoholism). Compared with controls, alcoholics had impaired decision-making and widespread reduced gray matter volume, especially in regions involved in decision-making. The regression analysis revealed links between high GM volume in the ventromedial prefrontal cortex, dorsal anterior cingulate cortex and right hippocampal formation, and high decision-making scores (P < 0.001, uncorrected). Decision-making deficits in alcoholism may result from impairment of both emotional and cognitive networks. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2024 APA, all rights reserved)"	604	0	1	0	0	4	4	0	0	1	0	3	3	1	1	0	3	1	0	1	1
"Neuropsychological, impulsive personality, and cerebral oxygenation correlates of undergraduate polysubstance use."	2010	Journal of Clinical and Experimental Neuropsychology	1380-3395	32	6	599-609	"Hammers, Dustin B; Suhr, Julie A"	English	"while the relationship between cognitive deficits and impulsive-sensation seeking has been acknowledged in prior research, the impact of impulsive personality style on substance-related cognitive deficits has not been completely elucidated. the present study explored factors related to decision making and executive functioning in 23 polysubstance-using undergraduates and 23 healthy normal controls. participants' cerebral oxygenation was measured using near-infrared spectroscopy. polysubstance users performed worse on the iowa gambling task (igt), wisconsin card sorting test (wcst), and n-back than did personality-matched controls. they also displayed less dorsolateral prefrontal oxygenation during the igt. the polysubstance group reported more antisocial characteristics and lower positive affect; controlling for these variables eliminated group differences on the n-back reaction time. results suggest that cognitive decrements can be observed in polysubstance-using undergraduates without a lifetime burden of substance use, even after accounting for impulsivity. results also highlight the importance of considering the contribution of positive mood and antisocial characteristics on executive functioning in polysubstance use."	10.1080/13803390903379599	Decision Making; *Impulsiveness; *Personality Traits; *Neuropsychology; Sensation Seeking; College Students; *Oxygenation; *Polydrug Abuse	"While the relationship between cognitive deficits and impulsive-sensation seeking has been acknowledged in prior research, the impact of impulsive personality style on substance-related cognitive deficits has not been completely elucidated. The present study explored factors related to decision making and executive functioning in 23 polysubstance-using undergraduates and 23 healthy normal controls. Participants' cerebral oxygenation was measured using near-infrared spectroscopy. Polysubstance users performed worse on the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT), Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST), and N-Back than did personality-matched controls. They also displayed less dorsolateral prefrontal oxygenation during the IGT. The polysubstance group reported more antisocial characteristics and lower positive affect; controlling for these variables eliminated group differences on the N-Back reaction time. Results suggest that cognitive decrements can be observed in polysubstance-using undergraduates without a lifetime burden of substance use, even after accounting for impulsivity. Results also highlight the importance of considering the contribution of positive mood and antisocial characteristics on executive functioning in polysubstance use. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	811	0	0	0	0	0	5	0	0	3	1	0	1	0	0	2	1	2	2	2	3
Cognitive impulsivity in cocaine and heroin polysubstance abusers.	2007	Addictive Behaviors	0306-4603	32	5	950-966	"Verdejo-Garcia, Antonio J; Perales, Jose C; Perez-Garcia, Miguel"	English	"chronic abuse of psychoactive substances produces significant deficits in executive control functions (ecf). these deficits are prominent in different domains associated with cognitive impulsivity, including response inhibition and decision-making. the extent and nature of these deficits may depend on the principal substance of abuse. to analyse response inhibition and decision-making performance in abstinent polysubstance abusers (psa) of cocaine and heroin, and healthy participants. we used univariate and multivariate analyses of variance to compare the performances of cocaine and heroin psa and healthy controls on several well-validated measures of response inhibition (stroop, 5-digit test and go/no go task) and decision-making (iowa gambling task). post-hoc exploratory analyses of the results from the go/no go task were conducted to examine specific effects of task switching on the pattern of omission/commission errors in the psa groups. cocaine but not heroin psa showed significant deficits on several measures of response inhibition, when compared to controls. reversal of task contingencies in the go/no go task primarily altered the commission error rate in cocaine psa, and the omission error rate in heroin psa. in contrast, both cocaine and heroin psa showed poorer performance on decision-making compared to controls. assuming the relevance of polysubstance involvement, cocaine abuse seems to differentially correlate with motor impulsivity skills, while both substances seem to be equally linked to the inability to decide advantageously in complex decision-making tasks. possible discrepancies in the neurological and psychological effects of these drugs are discussed."	10.1016/j.addbeh.2006.06.032	Decision Making; Cognitive Ability; *Cocaine; *Impulsiveness; *Heroin; Cognitive Impairment; Response Inhibition; *Drug Abuse	"Rationale: Chronic abuse of psychoactive substances produces significant deficits in executive control functions (ECF). These deficits are prominent in different domains associated with cognitive impulsivity, including response inhibition and decision-making. The extent and nature of these deficits may depend on the principal substance of abuse. Objectives: To analyse response inhibition and decision-making performance in abstinent polysubstance abusers (PSA) of cocaine and heroin, and healthy participants. Methods: We used univariate and multivariate analyses of variance to compare the performances of cocaine and heroin PSA and healthy controls on several well-validated measures of response inhibition (Stroop, 5-Digit Test and Go/No Go Task) and decision-making (Iowa Gambling Task). Post-hoc exploratory analyses of the results from the Go/No Go task were conducted to examine specific effects of task switching on the pattern of omission/commission errors in the PSA groups. Results: Cocaine but not heroin PSA showed significant deficits on several measures of response inhibition, when compared to controls. Reversal of task contingencies in the Go/No Go task primarily altered the commission error rate in cocaine PSA, and the omission error rate in heroin PSA. In contrast, both cocaine and heroin PSA showed poorer performance on decision-making compared to controls. Conclusions: Assuming the relevance of polysubstance involvement, cocaine abuse seems to differentially correlate with motor impulsivity skills, while both substances seem to be equally linked to the inability to decide advantageously in complex decision-making tasks. Possible discrepancies in the neurological and psychological effects of these drugs are discussed. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	897	0	1	0	0	4	4	0	0	1	0	3	3	1	1	0	1	1	0	1	5
Factors associated with the absence of cocaine craving in treatment-seeking individuals during inpatient cocaine detoxification.	2021	American Journal of Drug & Alcohol Abuse	952990	47	1	127-138	"Prez de los Cobos, Jose; Alcaraz, Saul; Verdejo-Garca, Antonio; Muoz, Laura; Siol, Nria; Fernndez-Serrano, Maria Jos; Fernndez, Pilar; Martnez, Ana; Duran-Sindreu, Santiago; Batlle, Francesca; Trujols, Joan"		"anecdotal evidence suggests a substantial proportion of individuals with cocaine use disorder do not report craving during inpatient detoxification. to examine prevalence and clinical correlates of consistent absence of cocaine craving among inpatients during detoxification. we hypothesized that craving absence would be associated with less severity of cocaine use, depression, and anxiety. alternative explanations were also explored. craving absence (i.e., non-cravers) was defined as a daily score of zero across two separate craving visual analogue scales in each of the inpatient days. participants scoring 1 on 1 day were considered cravers. severity of cocaine use disorder as well as in-treatment depression and anxiety were assessed. alternative contributors included presence of cocaine and other substances in urine at admission, in-treatment prescription of psychotropic medications, treatment motivation, executive function, interoception, and social desirability. eighty-seven participants (78.2% males) met criteria as either non-cravers (n = 29; 33.3%) or cravers (n = 58; 66.7%). mean length of admission in non-cravers and cravers was, respectively, 10.83 and 13.16 days. binary logistic regression model showed that non-cravers scored significantly lower than cravers on cocaine use during last month before treatment (or, 95% ci; 0.902, 0.8390.970), in-treatment depression (or, 95% ci; 0.794, 0.6590.956), and in-treatment prescribing of antipsychotics (or, 95% ci; 0.109, 0.0140.823). model prediction accuracy was 88.9%. one in three patients undergoing inpatient detoxification experienced absence of craving, linked to less pretreatment cocaine use, better mood, and decreased administration of antipsychotics. findings may inform pretreatment strategies and improve treatment cost-effectiveness."	10.1080/00952990.2020.1833340	Cocaine; depression; COCAINE; DESIRE; EXECUTIVE function; antipsychotics; COCAINE-induced disorders; craving course; DRUG-seeking behavior; LOGISTIC regression analysis; SOCIAL desirability; urge; withdrawal	"Anecdotal evidence suggests a substantial proportion of individuals with cocaine use disorder do not report craving during inpatient detoxification. To examine prevalence and clinical correlates of consistent absence of cocaine craving among inpatients during detoxification. We hypothesized that craving absence would be associated with less severity of cocaine use, depression, and anxiety. Alternative explanations were also explored. Craving absence (i.e., non-cravers) was defined as a daily score of zero across two separate craving visual analogue scales in each of the inpatient days. Participants scoring 1 on 1 day were considered cravers. Severity of cocaine use disorder as well as in-treatment depression and anxiety were assessed. Alternative contributors included presence of cocaine and other substances in urine at admission, in-treatment prescription of psychotropic medications, treatment motivation, executive function, interoception, and social desirability. Eighty-seven participants (78.2% males) met criteria as either non-cravers (n = 29; 33.3%) or cravers (n = 58; 66.7%). Mean length of admission in non-cravers and cravers was, respectively, 10.83 and 13.16 days. Binary logistic regression model showed that non-cravers scored significantly lower than cravers on cocaine use during last month before treatment (OR, 95% CI; 0.902, 0.8390.970), in-treatment depression (OR, 95% CI; 0.794, 0.6590.956), and in-treatment prescribing of antipsychotics (OR, 95% CI; 0.109, 0.0140.823). Model prediction accuracy was 88.9%. One in three patients undergoing inpatient detoxification experienced absence of craving, linked to less pretreatment cocaine use, better mood, and decreased administration of antipsychotics. Findings may inform pretreatment strategies and improve treatment cost-effectiveness. [ABSTRACT FROM AUTHOR]"	1909	0	1	0	0	4	4	0	0	1	0	3	3	1	1	0	3	1	0	1	5
Computational modelling of reinforcement learning and functional neuroimaging of probabilistic reversal for dissociating compulsive behaviours in gambling and cocaine use disorders.	2023	BJPsych Open		10	"American Psychiatric Association. (2013). Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (5th edn). American Psychiatric Publishing, 2013."		"Zuhlsdorff, Katharina; Verdejo-Roman, Juan; Clark, Luke; Albein-Urios, Natalia; Soriano-Mas, Carles; Cardinal, Rudolf N; Robbins, Trevor W; Dalley, Jeffrey W; Verdejo-Garcia, Antonio; Kanen, Jonathan W"	English	"individuals with cocaine use disorder or gambling disorder demonstrate impairments in cognitive flexibility: the ability to adapt to changes in the environment. flexibility is commonly assessed in a laboratory setting using probabilistic reversal learning, which involves reinforcement learning, the process by which feedback from the environment is used to adjust behavior. it is poorly understood whether impairments in flexibility differ between individuals with cocaine use and gambling disorders, and how this is instantiated by the brain. we applied computational modelling methods to gain a deeper mechanistic explanation of the latent processes underlying cognitive flexibility across two disorders of compulsivity. method: we present a re-analysis of probabilistic reversal data from individuals with either gambling disorder (n = 18) or cocaine use disorder (n = 20) and control participants (n = 18), using a hierarchical bayesian approach. furthermore, we relate behavioural findings to their underlying neural substrates through an analysis of task-based functional magnetic resonanceimaging (fmri) data. we observed lower 'stimulus stickiness' in gambling disorder, and report differences in tracking expected values in individuals with gambling disorder compared to controls, with greater activity during reward expected value tracking in the cingulate gyrus and amygdala. in cocaine use disorder, we observed lower responses to positive punishment prediction errors and greater activity following negative punishment prediction errors in the superior frontal gyrus compared to controls. using a computational approach, we show that individuals with gambling disorder and cocaine use disorder differed in their perseverative tendencies and in how they tracked value neurally, which has implications for psychiatric classification."	10.1192/bjo.2023.611	*Computational Modeling; *Cocaine; *Gambling Disorder; *Neuroimaging; *Probability; *Reinforcement; *Substance Use Disorder	"Background: Individuals with cocaine use disorder or gambling disorder demonstrate impairments in cognitive flexibility: the ability to adapt to changes in the environment. Flexibility is commonly assessed in a laboratory setting using probabilistic reversal learning, which involves reinforcement learning, the process by which feedback from the environment is used to adjust behavior. Aims: It is poorly understood whether impairments in flexibility differ between individuals with cocaine use and gambling disorders, and how this is instantiated by the brain. We applied computational modelling methods to gain a deeper mechanistic explanation of the latent processes underlying cognitive flexibility across two disorders of compulsivity. Method: We present a re-analysis of probabilistic reversal data from individuals with either gambling disorder (n = 18) or cocaine use disorder (n = 20) and control participants (n = 18), using a hierarchical Bayesian approach. Furthermore, we relate behavioural findings to their underlying neural substrates through an analysis of task-based functional magnetic resonanceimaging (fMRI) data. Results: We observed lower 'stimulus stickiness' in gambling disorder, and report differences in tracking expected values in individuals with gambling disorder compared to controls, with greater activity during reward expected value tracking in the cingulate gyrus and amygdala. In cocaine use disorder, we observed lower responses to positive punishment prediction errors and greater activity following negative punishment prediction errors in the superior frontal gyrus compared to controls. Conclusions: Using a computational approach, we show that individuals with gambling disorder and cocaine use disorder differed in their perseverative tendencies and in how they tracked value neurally, which has implications for psychiatric classification. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2024 APA, all rights reserved)"	82	0	1	2	2	2	2	0	0	1	0	4	4	1	1	0	3	1	0	8	5
"Decision-making under risk, but not under ambiguity, predicts pathological gambling in discrete types of abstinent substance users."	2018	Frontiers in Psychiatry		9	"Adinoff, B, Devous, MD, Cooper, DB, Best, SE, Chandler, P, & Harris, T, et al. Resting regional cerebral blood flow and gambling task performance in cocaine-dependent subjects and healthy comparison subjects. Am J Psychiatry (2003) 160:1892-4 https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/14514509 https://dx.doi.org/10.1176/appi.ajp.160.10.1892 2003-08520-031."		"Wilson, Michael J; Vassileva, Jasmin"	English	"this study explored how different forms of reward-based decision-making are associated with pathological gambling (pg) among abstinent individuals with prior dependence on different classes of drugs. participants had lifetime histories of either ""pure"" heroin dependence (n = 64), ""pure"" amphetamine dependence (n = 51), or polysubstance dependence (n = 89), or had no history of substance dependence (n = 133). decision-making was assessed via two neurocognitive tasks: (1) the iowa gambling task (igt), a measure of decision-making under ambiguity (i.e., uncertain risk contingencies); and (2) the cambridge gambling task (cgt), a measure of decision-making under risk (i.e., explicit risk contingencies). the main effects of neurocognitive performance and drug class on pg (defined as >= 3 dsm-iv pg symptoms) as well as their interactional effects were assessed via multiple linear regression. two cgt indices of decision-making under risk demonstrated positive main effects on pg. interaction effects indicated that the effects of decision-making under risk on pg were largely consistent across participant groups. notably, a linear relationship between greater cgt risk-taking and pg symptoms was not observed among amphetamine users, whereas igt performance was selectively and positively associated with pg in polysubstance users. overall, results indicate that reward-based decision-making under risk may represent a risk factor for pg across substance users, with some variations in these relationships influenced by specific class of substance of abuse."	10.3389/fpsyt.2018.00239	Test Construction; *Decision Making; *Impulsiveness; *Risk Taking; *Drug Dependency; Gambling Disorder	"This study explored how different forms of reward-based decision-making are associated with pathological gambling (PG) among abstinent individuals with prior dependence on different classes of drugs. Participants had lifetime histories of either ""pure"" heroin dependence (n = 64), ""pure"" amphetamine dependence (n = 51), or polysubstance dependence (n = 89), or had no history of substance dependence (n = 133). Decision-making was assessed via two neurocognitive tasks: (1) the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT), a measure of decision-making under ambiguity (i.e., uncertain risk contingencies); and (2) the Cambridge Gambling task (CGT), a measure of decision-making under risk (i.e., explicit risk contingencies). The main effects of neurocognitive performance and drug class on PG (defined as >= 3 DSM-IV PG symptoms) as well as their interactional effects were assessed via multiple linear regression. Two CGT indices of decision-making under risk demonstrated positive main effects on PG. Interaction effects indicated that the effects of decision-making under risk on PG were largely consistent across participant groups. Notably, a linear relationship between greater CGT Risk-Taking and PG symptoms was not observed among amphetamine users, whereas IGT performance was selectively and positively associated with PG in polysubstance users. Overall, results indicate that reward-based decision-making under risk may represent a risk factor for PG across substance users, with some variations in these relationships influenced by specific class of substance of abuse. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	380	0	1	2	2	2	2	0	0	1	0	3	3	1	1	0	0	4	1	8	7
Formal models of cognition and behavior.	2023	"APA handbook of neuropsychology: Neuroscience and neuromethods., Vol. 2"	1433840014 (Hardcover); 9781433840012 (Hardcover); 1433840022 (Digital (undefined format)); 9781433840029 (Digital (undefined format))		"Abrahams, S., Goldstein, L. H., Simmons, A., Brammer, M. J., Williams, S. C., Giampietro, V. P., Andrew, C. M., & Leigh, P. N. (2003). Functional magnetic resonance imaging of verbal fluency and confrontation naming using compressed image acquisition to permit overt responses. Human Brain Mapping, 20(1), 29-40. 2003-07999-004. https://dx.doi.org/10.1002/hbm.10126 https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/12953304"	647-664	"Brown, Gregory G"	English	"parametric models represent cognitive and behavioral theories through the specification of a model's architecture and by the theoretical meaning of the model parameters. computational models have proven useful in analyzing neurobehavioral deficits in many neuropsychiatric and medical disorders, including alzheimer's disease, vascular dementia, schizophrenia, drug abuse, alcoholic korsakoff's syndrome, parkinson's disease, and huntington's disease. this chapter begins with a discussion of the application of parametric computational models to the study of abnormal cognition and behavior, followed by a description of three examples of parametric computational models such as signal detection theory, multinomial processing tree, and diffusion model, that can be used to model many neuropsychological tasks. the chapter concludes with a description of common assumptions formal models make, a discussion of the strengths and weaknesses of such models, a brief description of applications to brain imaging, and a discussion of software."	10.1037/0000308-032	Neuroimaging; *Computational Modeling; *Cognitive Impairment; *Behavior Disorders; *Mental Disorders; *Neuropsychological Assessment; Neuropsychiatry	"Parametric models represent cognitive and behavioral theories through the specification of a model's architecture and by the theoretical meaning of the model parameters. Computational models have proven useful in analyzing neurobehavioral deficits in many neuropsychiatric and medical disorders, including Alzheimer's disease, vascular dementia, schizophrenia, drug abuse, alcoholic Korsakoff's syndrome, Parkinson's disease, and Huntington's disease. This chapter begins with a discussion of the application of parametric computational models to the study of abnormal cognition and behavior, followed by a description of three examples of parametric computational models such as signal detection theory, multinomial processing tree, and diffusion model, that can be used to model many neuropsychological tasks. The chapter concludes with a description of common assumptions formal models make, a discussion of the strengths and weaknesses of such models, a brief description of applications to brain imaging, and a discussion of software. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2023 APA, all rights reserved)"	92	1	2	1	3	3	1	2	0	2	2	2	2	3	3	3	2	3	3	0	0
"Effects of working memory load, a history of conduct disorder, and sex on decision making in substance dependent individuals."	2013	Drug and Alcohol Dependence	0376-8716	133	2	654-660	"Fridberg, Daniel J; Gerst, Kyle R; Finn, Peter R"	English	"substance dependence and antisocial psychopathology, such as a history of childhood conduct disorder (hccd), are associated with impulsive or disadvantageous decision making and reduced working memory capacity (wmc). reducing wmc via a working memory load increases disadvantageous decision making in healthy adults, but no previous studies have examined this effect in young adults with substance dependence and hccd. method: young adults with substance dependence (subdep; n = 158, 71 female), substance dependence and hccd (subdep + hccd; n = 72, 24 female), and control participants (n = 152, 84 female) completed a test of decision making (the iowa gambling task; igt) with or without a concurrent working memory load intended to tax wmc. outcomes were (i) net advantageous decisions on the igt, and (ii) preferences for infrequent- versus frequent-punishment decks. subdep + hccd men made fewer advantageous decisions on the igt than control men without a load, but there were no group differences among women in that condition. load was associated with fewer advantageous decisions for subdep + hccd women and control men, but not for men or women in the other groups. participants showed greater preference for infrequent-punishment, advantageous decks under load as well. there are gender differences in the effects of substance dependence, hccd, and working memory load on decision making on the igt. decision making by control men and subdep + hccd women suffered the most under load. load increases preferences for less-frequent punishments, similar to a delay discounting effect. future research should clarify the cognitive and neural mechanisms underlying these effects."	10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2013.08.014	Psychopathology; *Decision Making; *Conduct Disorder; *Short Term Memory; *Human Sex Differences; *Drug Abuse	"Background: Substance dependence and antisocial psychopathology, such as a history of childhood conduct disorder (HCCD), are associated with impulsive or disadvantageous decision making and reduced working memory capacity (WMC). Reducing WMC via a working memory load increases disadvantageous decision making in healthy adults, but no previous studies have examined this effect in young adults with substance dependence and HCCD. Method: Young adults with substance dependence (SubDep; n = 158, 71 female), substance dependence and HCCD (SubDep + HCCD; n = 72, 24 female), and control participants (n = 152, 84 female) completed a test of decision making (the Iowa Gambling Task; IGT) with or without a concurrent working memory load intended to tax WMC. Outcomes were (i) net advantageous decisions on the IGT, and (ii) preferences for infrequent- versus frequent-punishment decks. Results: SubDep + HCCD men made fewer advantageous decisions on the IGT than control men without a load, but there were no group differences among women in that condition. Load was associated with fewer advantageous decisions for SubDep + HCCD women and control men, but not for men or women in the other groups. Participants showed greater preference for infrequent-punishment, advantageous decks under load as well. Conclusions: There are gender differences in the effects of substance dependence, HCCD, and working memory load on decision making on the IGT. Decision making by control men and SubDep + HCCD women suffered the most under load. Load increases preferences for less-frequent punishments, similar to a delay discounting effect. Future research should clarify the cognitive and neural mechanisms underlying these effects. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	684	0	1	0	0	4	4	0	0	1	0	3	3	0	0	1	5	2	2	1	3
Models that learn how humans learn: The case of decision-making and its disorders.	2019	PLoS Computational Biology	1553734X	15	6	Jan-33	"Dezfouli, Amir; Griffiths, Kristi; Ramos, Fabio; Dayan, Peter; Balleine, Bernard W."		"popular computational models of decision-making make specific assumptions about learning processes that may cause them to underfit observed behaviours. here we suggest an alternative method using recurrent neural networks (rnns) to generate a flexible family of models that have sufficient capacity to represent the complex learning and decision- making strategies used by humans. in this approach, an rnn is trained to predict the next action that a subject will take in a decision-making task and, in this way, learns to imitate the processes underlying subjects choices and their learning abilities. we demonstrate the benefits of this approach using a new dataset drawn from patients with either unipolar (n = 34) or bipolar (n = 33) depression and matched healthy controls (n = 34) making decisions on a two-armed bandit task. the results indicate that this new approach is better than baseline reinforcement-learning methods in terms of overall performance and its capacity to predict subjects choices. we show that the model can be interpreted using off-policy simulations and thereby provides a novel clustering of subjects learning processessomething that often eludes traditional approaches to modelling and behavioural analysis."	10.1371/journal.pcbi.1006903	Psychology; Cognition; Behavior; Decision making; Learning; Simulation and modeling; Depression; Neural networks; Learning and memory; Social sciences; Cognitive science; Neuroscience; REINFORCEMENT learning; MENTAL health; COMPUTER simulation; DECISION making; RECURRENT neural networks; Biology and life sciences; Computer and information sciences; Medicine and health sciences; Research and analysis methods; Research Article; Cognitive psychology; Careers in research; Engineering and technology; Engineers; Mental health and psychiatry; Mood disorders; People and places; Population groupings; PREDICTION models; Professions; Recurrent neural networks; Science and technology workforce; Science policy	"Popular computational models of decision-making make specific assumptions about learning processes that may cause them to underfit observed behaviours. Here we suggest an alternative method using recurrent neural networks (RNNs) to generate a flexible family of models that have sufficient capacity to represent the complex learning and decision- making strategies used by humans. In this approach, an RNN is trained to predict the next action that a subject will take in a decision-making task and, in this way, learns to imitate the processes underlying subjects choices and their learning abilities. We demonstrate the benefits of this approach using a new dataset drawn from patients with either unipolar (n = 34) or bipolar (n = 33) depression and matched healthy controls (n = 34) making decisions on a two-armed bandit task. The results indicate that this new approach is better than baseline reinforcement-learning methods in terms of overall performance and its capacity to predict subjects choices. We show that the model can be interpreted using off-policy simulations and thereby provides a novel clustering of subjects learning processessomething that often eludes traditional approaches to modelling and behavioural analysis. [ABSTRACT FROM AUTHOR]"	1971	1	2	1	3	3	1	2	0	2	2	2	2	3	3	3	2	3	3	0	0
Individual associations of adolescent alcohol use disorder versus cannabis use disorder symptoms in neural prediction error signaling and the response to novelty.	2021	Developmental Cognitive Neuroscience	1878-9293	48	"Adamson, S.J., Kay-Lambkin, F.J., Baker, A.L., Lewin, T.J., Thornton, L., Kelly, B.J., & Sellman, J.D. (2010). An improved brief measure of cannabis misuse: the Cannabis use disorders identification test-revised (CUDIT-R). Drug Alcohol Depend. 110, 137-143 https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2010.02.017 https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/20347232 https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2010.02.017 2010-12688-019."		"Aloi, Joseph; Crum, Kathleen I; Blair, Karina S; Zhang, Ru; Bashford-Largo, Johannah; Bajaj, Sahil; Schwartz, Amanda; Carollo, Erin; Hwang, Soonjo; Leiker, Emily; Filbey, Francesca M; Averbeck, Bruno B; Dobbertin, Matthew; Blair, R. James R"	English	"two of the most commonly used illegal substances by adolescents are alcohol and cannabis. alcohol use disorder (aud) and cannabis use disorder (cud) are associated with poorer decision-making in adolescents. in adolescents, level of aud symptomatology has been negatively associated with striatal reward responsivity. however, little work has explored the relationship with striatal reward prediction error (rpe) representation and the extent to which any augmentation of rpe by novel stimuli is impacted. one-hundred fifty-one adolescents participated in the novelty task while undergoing functional magnetic resonance imaging (fmri). in this task, participants learn to choose novel or non-novel stimuli to gain monetary reward. level of aud symptomatology was negatively associated with both optimal decision-making and bold response modulation by rpe within striatum and regions of prefrontal cortex. the neural alterations in rpe representation were particularly pronounced when participants were exploring novel stimuli. level of cud symptomatology moderated the relationship between novelty propensity and rpe representation within inferior parietal lobule and dorsomedial prefrontal cortex. these data expand on an emerging literature investigating individual associations of aud symptomatology levels versus cud symptomatology levels and rpe representation during reinforcement processing and provide insight on the role of neuro-computational processes underlying reinforcement learning/decision-making in adolescents."	10.1016/j.dcn.2021.100944	Rewards; Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging; *Alcohol Use Disorder; *Symptoms; *Prediction Errors; *Striatum; *Underage Drinking; Cannabis Use Disorder	"Two of the most commonly used illegal substances by adolescents are alcohol and cannabis. Alcohol use disorder (AUD) and cannabis use disorder (CUD) are associated with poorer decision-making in adolescents. In adolescents, level of AUD symptomatology has been negatively associated with striatal reward responsivity. However, little work has explored the relationship with striatal reward prediction error (RPE) representation and the extent to which any augmentation of RPE by novel stimuli is impacted. One-hundred fifty-one adolescents participated in the Novelty Task while undergoing functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). In this task, participants learn to choose novel or non-novel stimuli to gain monetary reward. Level of AUD symptomatology was negatively associated with both optimal decision-making and BOLD response modulation by RPE within striatum and regions of prefrontal cortex. The neural alterations in RPE representation were particularly pronounced when participants were exploring novel stimuli. Level of CUD symptomatology moderated the relationship between novelty propensity and RPE representation within inferior parietal lobule and dorsomedial prefrontal cortex. These data expand on an emerging literature investigating individual associations of AUD symptomatology levels versus CUD symptomatology levels and RPE representation during reinforcement processing and provide insight on the role of neuro-computational processes underlying reinforcement learning/decision-making in adolescents. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	213	0	1	2	2	2	2	0	0	1	0	3	3	1	1	0	3	1	0	8	7
"The similarities and differences in impulsivity and cognitive ability among ketamine, methadone, and non-drug users."	2016	Psychiatry Research	0165-1781	243	"Albein-Urios, N., Martinez-Gonzalez, J.M., Lozano, O., Clark, L., & Verdejo-Garcia, A. (2012). Comparison of impulsivity and working memory in cocaine addiction and pathological gambling: Implications for cocaine-induced neurotoxicity. Drug Alcohol Depend. 126, 1-6. https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/22475814 https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2012.03.008 2013-05741-001."	109-114	"Zeng, Hong; Su, Dequan; Jiang, Xing; Zhu, Liang; Ye, Haosheng"	English	"the study aimed to identify similarities and differences among ketamine, methadone users, and non-drug-using controls, on impulsivity, antisocial personality, and related cognitive abilities. a case-control observational design was used to compare the impulsivity and cognitive function of ketamine users (n = 51), methadone users (n=59), and controls (n=60). antisocial personality traits and emotion states were also measured. one-way anovas and planned post hoc pair-wise tests were used to analyze the data. compared to non-drug-using controls, ketamine and methadone users had elevated scores on bis and pd scale of the mmpi, poorer performance on 2-back task, stop-signal task, and stroop test. ketamine users performed the worst in the 2-back accuracy and stop miss rate compared to methadone users and controls. there were no significant differences between the groups on the iowa gambling task. ketamine users did not show deficits in decision-making but exhibited strong impulsivity, antisocial personality, and poor response inhibition and working memory at levels similar to methadone users. these deficits may reflect vulnerability to addiction. this suggests that future treatment programs for ketamine users could address drug users' impulsive cognition and psychopathic deviance."	10.1016/j.psychres.2016.04.095	Cognitive Ability; *Impulsiveness; *Ketamine; *Methadone	"The study aimed to identify similarities and differences among ketamine, methadone users, and non-drug-using controls, on impulsivity, antisocial personality, and related cognitive abilities. A case-control observational design was used to compare the impulsivity and cognitive function of ketamine users (n = 51), methadone users (n=59), and controls (n=60). Antisocial personality traits and emotion states were also measured. One-way ANOVAs and planned post hoc pair-wise tests were used to analyze the data. Compared to non-drug-using controls, ketamine and methadone users had elevated scores on BIS and Pd scale of the MMPI, poorer performance on 2-back task, Stop-signal task, and Stroop test. Ketamine users performed the worst in the 2-back accuracy and Stop miss rate compared to methadone users and controls. There were no significant differences between the groups on the Iowa Gambling Task. Ketamine users did not show deficits in decision-making but exhibited strong impulsivity, antisocial personality, and poor response inhibition and working memory at levels similar to methadone users. These deficits may reflect vulnerability to addiction. This suggests that future treatment programs for ketamine users could address drug users' impulsive cognition and psychopathic deviance. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	471	0	0	0	0	0	5	0	0	3	1	0	1	0	0	2	1	2	2	2	3
Computational models of exploration and exploitation characterise onset and efficacy of treatment in methamphetamine use disorder.	2022	Addiction biology	1369-1600	27	3	e13172	" chong, trevor t-j;  chong, trevor t._j.;  chong, ttj;  verdejo-garcia, a;  verdejo-garcia, antonio;  verdejo_garcia, antonio; robinson, ah; robinson, alex h; robinson, alex h."		"people with methamphetamine use disorder (pwmud) spend substantial time and resources on substance use, which hinders their ability to explore alternate reinforcers. gold-standard behavioural treatments attempt to remedy this by encouraging action towards non-drug reinforcers, but substance use often persists. we aimed to unravel the mechanistic drivers of this behaviour by applying a computational model of explore/exploit behaviour to decision-making data (iowa gambling task) from 106 pwmud and 48 controls. we then examined the longitudinal link between explore/exploit mechanisms and changes in methamphetamine use 6 weeks later. exploitation parameters included reinforcement sensitivity and inverse decay (i.e., number of past outcomes used to guide choices). exploration parameters included maximum directed exploration value (i.e., value of trying novel actions). the timeline follow back measured changes in methamphetamine use. compared to controls, pwmud showed deficits in exploitative decision-making, characterised by reduced reinforcement sensitivity, u = 3065, p = 0.009, and less use of previous choice outcomes, u = 3062, p = 0.010. this was accompanied by a behavioural pattern of frequent shifting between choices, which appeared consistent with random exploration. furthermore, pwmud with greater reductions of methamphetamine use at 6 weeks had increased directed exploration (beta = 0.22, p = 0.045); greater use of past choice outcomes (beta = -0.39, p = 0.002) and greater choice consistency (beta = -0.39, p = 0.002). therefore, limited computational exploitation and increased behavioural exploration characterise pwmud's presentation to treatment, while increased directed exploration, use of past choice outcomes and choice consistency predict greater reductions of methamphetamine use."	10.1111/adb.13172	" behavior;  cocaine;  computational modelling;  computer simulation;  decision making;  decision-making;  decision_making;  deficits;  dependence scale sds;  executive functions;  exploit;  exploratory behavior;  explore;  explore/exploit;  humans;  individuals;  methamphetamine;  polysubstance users;  predictive;  quality-of-life;  reinforcement, psychology;  research funding;  severity;  substance use; *methamphetamine; alcohol; computational modelling"	"People with Methamphetamine Use Disorder (PwMUD) spend substantial time and resources on substance use, which hinders their ability to explore alternate reinforcers. Gold-standard behavioural treatments attempt to remedy this by encouraging action towards non-drug reinforcers, but substance use often persists. We aimed to unravel the mechanistic drivers of this behaviour by applying a computational model of explore/exploit behaviour to decision-making data (Iowa Gambling Task) from 106 PwMUD and 48 controls. We then examined the longitudinal link between explore/exploit mechanisms and changes in methamphetamine use 6 weeks later. Exploitation parameters included reinforcement sensitivity and inverse decay (i.e., number of past outcomes used to guide choices). Exploration parameters included maximum directed exploration value (i.e., value of trying novel actions). The Timeline Follow Back measured changes in methamphetamine use. Compared to controls, PwMUD showed deficits in exploitative decision-making, characterised by reduced reinforcement sensitivity, U = 3065, p = 0.009, and less use of previous choice outcomes, U = 3062, p = 0.010. This was accompanied by a behavioural pattern of frequent shifting between choices, which appeared consistent with random exploration. Furthermore, PwMUD with greater reductions of methamphetamine use at 6 weeks had increased directed exploration (beta = 0.22, p = 0.045); greater use of past choice outcomes (beta = -0.39, p = 0.002) and greater choice consistency (beta = -0.39, p = 0.002). Therefore, limited computational exploitation and increased behavioural exploration characterise PwMUD's presentation to treatment, while increased directed exploration, use of past choice outcomes and choice consistency predict greater reductions of methamphetamine use. Copyright  2022 The Authors. Addiction Biology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Society for the Study of Addiction."	2906	0	1	2	2	2	2	0	0	1	0	3	3	1	1	0	0	4	1	8	7
The role of decision-making in cannabis-related problems among young adults.	2015	Drug and Alcohol Dependence	0376-8716	154	"Alfonso, J.P., Caracuel, A., Delgado-Pastor, L.C., & Verdejo-Garcia, A. (2011). Combined goal management training and mindfulness meditation improve executive functions and decision-making performance in abstinent polysubstance abusers. Drug Alcohol Depend. 117, 78-81. https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/21277705 https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2010.12.025 2011-14099-015."	214-221	"Gonzalez, Raul; Schuster, Randi M; Mermelstein, Robin M; Diviak, Kathleen R"	English	"deficits in decision-making and episodic memory are often reported among heavy cannabis users, yet little is known on how they influence negative consequences from cannabis use. individual differences in decision-making may explain, in part, why some individuals experience significant problems from their cannabis use whereas others do not. we hypothesized that poor decision-making would moderate relationships between amount of cannabis use and problems from cannabis use whereas episodic memory performance would not. method: young adult cannabis users (n = 52) with cannabis as their drug of choice and with minimal comorbidities completed semi-structured interviews, self-report questionnaires, and measures of neurocognitive functioning, with decision-making accessed via the iowa gambling task (igt), episodic memory via the hopkins verbal learning test - revised (hvlt) and problems from cannabis use with the marijuana problems scale. strong relationships were observed between amount of cannabis use (lifetime, 12-month, and 30-day) and problems reported from use, but only among participants with low (impaired) decision-making (r2 = .39 to .51; p < .01). no significant relationships were observed among those with better (low average to high average) decision-making performance (p > .05). in contrast, episodic memory performance was not a significant moderator of the relationship between amount of cannabis use and cannabis problems (p > .05). cannabis users with poor decision-making may be at greater risk for experiencing significant negative consequences from their cannabis use. our results lend further support to emerging evidence of decision-making as a risk factor for addiction and extend these findings to cannabis users."	10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2015.06.046	Risk Factors; *Cannabis; *Decision Making; *Episodic Memory; *Drug Addiction; *Drug Abuse; Roles	"Background: Deficits in decision-making and episodic memory are often reported among heavy cannabis users, yet little is known on how they influence negative consequences from cannabis use. Individual differences in decision-making may explain, in part, why some individuals experience significant problems from their cannabis use whereas others do not. We hypothesized that poor decision-making would moderate relationships between amount of cannabis use and problems from cannabis use whereas episodic memory performance would not. Method: Young adult cannabis users (n = 52) with cannabis as their drug of choice and with minimal comorbidities completed semi-structured interviews, self-report questionnaires, and measures of neurocognitive functioning, with decision-making accessed via the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT), episodic memory via the Hopkins Verbal Learning Test - Revised (HVLT) and problems from cannabis use with the Marijuana Problems Scale. Results: Strong relationships were observed between amount of cannabis use (lifetime, 12-month, and 30-day) and problems reported from use, but only among participants with low (impaired) decision-making (R2 = .39 to .51; p < .01). No significant relationships were observed among those with better (low average to high average) decision-making performance (p > .05). In contrast, episodic memory performance was not a significant moderator of the relationship between amount of cannabis use and cannabis problems (p > .05). Conclusions: Cannabis users with poor decision-making may be at greater risk for experiencing significant negative consequences from their cannabis use. Our results lend further support to emerging evidence of decision-making as a risk factor for addiction and extend these findings to cannabis users. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	559	0	1	2	2	2	2	1	1	0	3	1	0	2	2	5	4	5	5	8	2
Effects of substance use on monetary delay discounting among people who use stimulants with and without HIV: An ecological momentary assessment study.	2022	Experimental and Clinical Psychopharmacology	1064-1297	30	1	39-50	"Xu, Yunan; Towe, Sheri L; Causey, Shakiera T; Dennis, Paul A; Meade, Christina S"	English	"exploration of the real-time relationship between substance use and delay discounting may reveal potential mechanisms driving high-risk behaviors. we conducted an ecological momentary assessment (ema) study to investigate the effects of substance use on delay discounting in a sample of people who use stimulants (hiv+: 30; hiv-: 34). participants completed multiple emas throughout the day for 28 days. the emas collected data on delay discounting and substance use (time since last substance use and level of intoxication). delay discounting was assessed using a brief monetary choice questionnaire (mcq). analyses were conducted using linear mixed effects modeling. most participants (99.1%) used cocaine as their primary stimulant. among participants without hiv, mcq score remained relatively stable during the first 2 hr after stimulant use, followed by an increase during 2-6 hr (p < .05), before decreasing again. for alcohol and marijuana, the mcq score was stable during the first 4 hr after use, with a sharp increase at 4-6 hr (p < .05), before decreasing again. among participants with hiv, there were no changes in mcq score as a function of time since recent substance use. these findings provide evidence of a plausible connection between delay discounting and acute withdrawal that may have relevance for risky behaviors."	10.1037/pha0000423	Test Construction; *Delay Discounting; *Drug Usage; *Ecological Momentary Assessment; *HIV; Alcohol Use; Cannabis Use	"Exploration of the real-time relationship between substance use and delay discounting may reveal potential mechanisms driving high-risk behaviors. We conducted an ecological momentary assessment (EMA) study to investigate the effects of substance use on delay discounting in a sample of people who use stimulants (HIV+: 30; HIV-: 34). Participants completed multiple EMAs throughout the day for 28 days. The EMAs collected data on delay discounting and substance use (time since last substance use and level of intoxication). Delay discounting was assessed using a brief Monetary Choice Questionnaire (MCQ). Analyses were conducted using linear mixed effects modeling. Most participants (99.1%) used cocaine as their primary stimulant. Among participants without HIV, MCQ score remained relatively stable during the first 2 hr after stimulant use, followed by an increase during 2-6 hr (p < .05), before decreasing again. For alcohol and marijuana, the MCQ score was stable during the first 4 hr after use, with a sharp increase at 4-6 hr (p < .05), before decreasing again. Among participants with HIV, there were no changes in MCQ score as a function of time since recent substance use. These findings provide evidence of a plausible connection between delay discounting and acute withdrawal that may have relevance for risky behaviors. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2022 APA, all rights reserved) Impact Statement Public Health Significance-This ecological momentary assessment study provides evidence of a plausible connection between delay discounting and substance withdrawal that may have relevance for risky behaviors. The finding suggests that targeted interventions aimed at reducing risk behaviors among people who use stimulants may need to address the potential effects of substance withdrawal on delay discounting. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2022 APA, all rights reserved)"	239	0	1	0	0	4	4	0	0	1	0	3	3	1	1	0	0	4	1	1	7
The somatic marker hypothesis and its neural basis: Using past experiences to forecast the future in decision making.	2011	Predictions in the brain: Using our past to generate a future.	978-0-19-539551-8 (Hardcover)		"Ackerly, S. S., & Benton, A. L. (1948). Report of a case of bilateral frontal lobe defect. Proceedings of the Association for Research in Nervous and Mental Disease (Baltimore), 27, 479-504."	122-133	"Bechara, Antoine"	English	"we have proposed a neural framework for how some of the factors affecting decision-making may be implemented in the ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmpfc). the major advancement in the size, complexity, and connectivity of the frontal lobes in humans has occurred in relation to brodmann area (ba) 10, i.e., the frontal pole, and not so much to the more posterior areas of the vmpfc. we have proposed that information conveying delay in the future (or distance in the past) depends on the integrity of more anterior vmpfc cortices (i.e., frontal pole) in order for a delayed outcome to exert an influence on behavior. if those anterior regions (frontal pole) are damaged, decision-making shifts towards shorter time horizons (i.e., the decision-making process becomes more influenced by more immediate, or more recent, outcomes). as the damage extends to the more posterior vmpfc regions (including the anterior cingulate cortex, basal forebrain, and nucleus accumbens), the shortening of this time horizon (or high recency) becomes more severe. anatomically, the more posterior areas of the vmpfc (e.g., ba 25) are directly connected to brain structures involved in triggering (autonomic, neurotransmitter nuclei), or representing (sensory nuclei in the brainstem, insular, and somatosensory cortices) affective states, while access of more anterior areas is polysynaptic and indirect. it follows that coupling of information to representations of somatic states via posterior vmpfc is associated with relatively fast, effortless, and strong somatic signals, while the signallng via more anterior vmpfc is relatively slowed, effortful, and weak. consistent with this framework, we suggested that humans have developed greater capacity to decide according to outcomes that are far more distant in the future (or past). this capacity places even normal individuals at a disadvantage because nearer events possess stronger somatic states, so that they tend to bias decisions in their favor. however, damage to the vmpfc tends to curb this capacity to a much greater extent."	10.1093/acprof:oso/9780195395518.003.0048	Frontal Lobe; *Decision Making; *Neuropsychology; *Prefrontal Cortex; *Future; Time	"We have proposed a neural framework for how some of the factors affecting decision-making may be implemented in the ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC). The major advancement in the size, complexity, and connectivity of the frontal lobes in humans has occurred in relation to Brodmann area (BA) 10, i.e., the frontal pole, and not so much to the more posterior areas of the vmPFC. We have proposed that information conveying delay in the future (or distance in the past) depends on the integrity of more anterior vmPFC cortices (i.e., frontal pole) in order for a delayed outcome to exert an influence on behavior. If those anterior regions (frontal pole) are damaged, decision-making shifts towards shorter time horizons (i.e., the decision-making process becomes more influenced by more immediate, or more recent, outcomes). As the damage extends to the more posterior vmPFC regions (including the anterior cingulate cortex, basal forebrain, and nucleus accumbens), the shortening of this time horizon (or high recency) becomes more severe. Anatomically, the more posterior areas of the vmPFC (e.g., BA 25) are directly connected to brain structures involved in triggering (autonomic, neurotransmitter nuclei), or representing (sensory nuclei in the brainstem, insular, and somatosensory cortices) affective states, while access of more anterior areas is polysynaptic and indirect. It follows that coupling of information to representations of somatic states via posterior vmPFC is associated with relatively fast, effortless, and strong somatic signals, while the signallng via more anterior vmPFC is relatively slowed, effortful, and weak. Consistent with this framework, we suggested that humans have developed greater capacity to decide according to outcomes that are far more distant in the future (or past). This capacity places even normal individuals at a disadvantage because nearer events possess stronger somatic states, so that they tend to bias decisions in their favor. However, damage to the vmPFC tends to curb this capacity to a much greater extent. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	777	0	0	0	1	1	0	0	0	3	1	0	1	0	0	2	1	2	2	5	1
Impaired outcome evaluation during risky decision-making in individuals with methamphetamine use disorder.	2022	International Journal of Mental Health and Addiction	1557-1874		"Ahn, W.Y., Haines, N., and Zhang, L. (2017). Revealing neurocomputational mechanisms of reinforcement learning and decision-making with the hBayesDM package. Computational Psychiatry, 1, 24-57 https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/29601060 https://dx.doi.org/10.1162/CPSY_a_00002"	No-Specified	"Sui, Xiao-Yang; Zhang, Mingming; Yuan, Ti-Fei; Rao, Li-Lin"		"decision-making is one of the cognitive domains in which drug users are commonly impaired. to our knowledge, few studies have investigated the underlying mechanism of risk-taking behavior among individuals with methamphetamine use disorder (mud) using a computational approach. ninety-six right-handed male participants (63 individuals with mud who were currently abstinent and 33 healthy controls) were included in experiment 1, and 94 right-handed male participants (63 individuals with mud who were currently abstinent and 31 healthy controls) were included in experiment 2. to investigate whether individuals with mud exhibit different risk-taking behavior from healthy controls and understand the possible underlying psychological processes, we used the balloon analogue risk task (bart) with and without methamphetamine-related pictures and the method of computational modeling. after individuals with mud completed the bart, a 5-min video of methamphetamine use was displayed, and individuals with mud then rated their subjective craving using a visual analogue scale. individuals with mud displayed higher risk-taking behavior than healthy controls when participants were exposed to methamphetamine-related pictures. the results of computational modeling revealed that the risk-taking propensity parameter was significantly higher in individuals with mud than in healthy controls. the craving scores were positively correlated with the risk-taking propensity parameter and the updating coefficient when individuals with mud were exposed to methamphetamine-related pictures. higher risk taking in individuals with mud could be explained by differences in the risk-taking propensity parameter, which reflects how participants evaluate the outcomes. these findings can be used to guide future work in targeting the evaluation process among people with mud."	10.1007/s11469-022-00873-3		"Decision-making is one of the cognitive domains in which drug users are commonly impaired. To our knowledge, few studies have investigated the underlying mechanism of risk-taking behavior among individuals with methamphetamine use disorder (MUD) using a computational approach. Ninety-six right-handed male participants (63 individuals with MUD who were currently abstinent and 33 healthy controls) were included in Experiment 1, and 94 right-handed male participants (63 individuals with MUD who were currently abstinent and 31 healthy controls) were included in Experiment 2. To investigate whether individuals with MUD exhibit different risk-taking behavior from healthy controls and understand the possible underlying psychological processes, we used the Balloon Analogue Risk Task (BART) with and without methamphetamine-related pictures and the method of computational modeling. After individuals with MUD completed the BART, a 5-min video of methamphetamine use was displayed, and individuals with MUD then rated their subjective craving using a visual analogue scale. Individuals with MUD displayed higher risk-taking behavior than healthy controls when participants were exposed to methamphetamine-related pictures. The results of computational modeling revealed that the risk-taking propensity parameter was significantly higher in individuals with MUD than in healthy controls. The craving scores were positively correlated with the risk-taking propensity parameter and the updating coefficient when individuals with MUD were exposed to methamphetamine-related pictures. Higher risk taking in individuals with MUD could be explained by differences in the risk-taking propensity parameter, which reflects how participants evaluate the outcomes. These findings can be used to guide future work in targeting the evaluation process among people with MUD. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2022 APA, all rights reserved)"	174	0	1	2	2	2	2	0	0	1	0	3	3	1	1	0	0	4	1	8	7
"Effects of Alcohol, Initial Gambling Outcomes, Impulsivity, and Gambling Cognitions on Gambling Behavior Using a Video Poker Task."	2017	Exp Clin Psychopharmacol	1064-1297	25	3	175-185	"Corbin, WR; Cronce, JM"		"Drinking and gambling frequently co-occur, and concurrent gambling and drinking may lead to greater negative consequences than either behavior alone. Building on prior research on the effects of alcohol, initial gambling outcomes, impulsivity, and gambling cognitions on gambling behaviors using a chance-based (nonstrategic) slot-machine task, the current study explored the impact of these factors on a skill-based (strategic) video poker task. We anticipated larger average bets and greater gambling persistence under alcohol relative to placebo, and expected alcohol effects to be moderated by initial gambling outcomes, impulsivity, and gambling cognitions. Participants (N = 162; 25.9% female) were randomly assigned to alcohol (target BrAC = .08g%) or placebo and were given $10 to wager on a simulated video poker task, which was programmed to produce 1 of 3 initial outcomes (win, breakeven, or lose) before beginning a progressive loss schedule. Despite evidence for validity of the video poker task and alcohol administration paradigm, primary hypotheses were not supported. Individuals who received alcohol placed smaller wagers than participants in the placebo condition, though this effect was not statistically significant, and the direction of effects was reversed in at-risk gamblers (n = 41). These findings contradict prior research and suggest that alcohol effects on gambling behavior may differ by gambling type (nonstrategic vs. strategic games). Interventions that suggest alcohol is universally disinhibiting may be at odds with young adults lived experience and thus be less effective than those that recognize the greater complexity of alcohol effects"	10.1037/pha0000125	alcohol; impulsivity; gambling; cognitions; persistence	(C) 2017 by the American Psychological Association	1236	0	0	0	0	4	4	0	0	3	0	3	3	1	1	0	3	1	0	1	6
Computational Modeling Reveals Distinct Effects of HIV and History of Drug Use on Decision-Making Processes in Women	2013	PLOS ONE	1932-6203	8	8		"Vassileva, J; Ahn, WY; Weber, KM; Busemeyer, JR; Stout, JC; Gonzalez, R; Cohen, MH"	English	"drug users and hiv-seropositive individuals often show deficits in decision-making; however the nature of these deficits is not well understood. recent studies have employed computational modeling approaches to disentangle the psychological processes involved in decision-making. although such approaches have been used successfully with a number of clinical groups including drug users, no study to date has used computational modeling to examine the effects of hiv on decision-making. in this study, we use this approach to investigate the effects of hiv and drug use on decision-making processes in women, who remain a relatively understudied population. method: fifty-seven women enrolled in the women's interagency hiv study (wihs) were classified into one of four groups based on their hiv status and history of crack cocaine and/or heroin drug use (du): hiv+/du+ (n = 14); hiv+/du- (n = 17); hiv-/du+ (n = 14); and hiv-/du- (n = 12). we measured decision-making with the iowa gambling task (igt) and examined behavioral performance and model parameters derived from the best-fitting computational model of the igt. although groups showed similar behavioral performance, hiv and du exhibited differential relationship to model parameters. specifically, du was associated with compromised learning/memory and reduced loss aversion, whereas hiv was associated with reduced loss aversion, but was not related to other model parameters. results reveal that hiv and du have differential associations with distinct decision-making processes in women. this study contributes to a growing line of literature which shows that different psychological processes may underlie similar behavioral performance in various clinical groups and may be associated with distinct functional outcomes."	10.1371/journal.pone.0068962	ANTIRETROVIRAL THERAPY; COCAINE ABUSERS; COGNITIVE DISORDERS; DEPENDENT INDIVIDUALS; EXECUTIVE FUNCTIONS; INTERAGENCY HIV; IOWA GAMBLING TASK; NEUROPSYCHOLOGICAL FUNCTION; SEX-DIFFERENCES; VENTROMEDIAL PREFRONTAL CORTEX	"Objective: Drug users and HIV-seropositive individuals often show deficits in decision-making; however the nature of these deficits is not well understood. Recent studies have employed computational modeling approaches to disentangle the psychological processes involved in decision-making. Although such approaches have been used successfully with a number of clinical groups including drug users, no study to date has used computational modeling to examine the effects of HIV on decision-making. In this study, we use this approach to investigate the effects of HIV and drug use on decision-making processes in women, who remain a relatively understudied population. Method: Fifty-seven women enrolled in the Women's Interagency HIV Study (WIHS) were classified into one of four groups based on their HIV status and history of crack cocaine and/or heroin drug use (DU): HIV+/DU+ (n = 14); HIV+/DU- (n = 17); HIV-/DU+ (n = 14); and HIV-/DU- (n = 12). We measured decision-making with the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) and examined behavioral performance and model parameters derived from the best-fitting computational model of the IGT. Results: Although groups showed similar behavioral performance, HIV and DU exhibited differential relationship to model parameters. Specifically, DU was associated with compromised learning/memory and reduced loss aversion, whereas HIV was associated with reduced loss aversion, but was not related to other model parameters. Conclusions: Results reveal that HIV and DU have differential associations with distinct decision-making processes in women. This study contributes to a growing line of literature which shows that different psychological processes may underlie similar behavioral performance in various clinical groups and may be associated with distinct functional outcomes."	1	0	0	0	0	4	4	0	0	3	0	3	3	0	0	1	1	2	2	1	3
"The neuropsychological correlates of cannabis use in schizophrenia: Lifetime abuse/dependence, frequency of use, and recency of use."	2007	Schizophrenia Research	0920-9964	96	3-Jan	169-184	"Coulston, Carissa M; Perdices, Michael; Tennant, Christopher C"	English	"this study examined the relationship between neuropsychological performance and three different indices of cannabis use in schizophrenia. these indices were dsm-iv lifetime abuse/dependence, frequency of use, and recency of use. sixty males with schizophrenia/schizoaffective disorder and 17 healthy males were recruited. the two groups were matched for age, years of education, and premorbid iq. medical history, substance use, and psychiatric symptoms were assessed. a neuropsychological battery was also administered to assess attention/processing speed, executive functions, memory, and perceptual organisation. substance use within 24 hours of cognitive assessment was screened by urine analysis, and a range of confounds were controlled. in the schizophrenia group, 44 participants met dsm-iv criteria for lifetime cannabis abuse/dependence. in addition, there were three mutually exclusive frequency-of-cannabis-use subgroups comprising ""high"" frequency users (n=11), ""medium"" frequency users (n=7), and ""low"" frequency users (n=34) over the preceding year. there were also four mutually exclusive recency-of-cannabis-use categories comprising ""cannabis abuse/dependence in the past week"" (n=11 users), ""non-dependent cannabis use in the past week"" (n=7 users), ""non-dependent cannabis use in the past month, but prior to the pastweek"" (n=7 users), and ""non-dependent cannabis use prior to the past month"" (n=9 users). the control group performed better than the schizophrenia group in all cognitive domains. within the schizophrenia group, a larger proportion of participants with lifetime cannabis abuse/dependence demonstrated better performance than those without lifetime abuse/ dependence on a component of psychomotor speed. frequency and recency of cannabis use were also associated with better neuropsychological performance, predominantly in the domains of attention/processing speed and executive functions. in conclusion, cannabis use is associated with enhanced cognitive functioning in schizophrenia. implications of the results, limitations of the study, and directions for future research are discussed."	10.1016/j.schres.2007.08.006	Neuropsychology; *Cannabis; *Cannabis Use; *Schizophrenia; *Cognitive Ability; Schizoaffective Disorder; Human Males	"This study examined the relationship between neuropsychological performance and three different indices of cannabis use in schizophrenia. These indices were DSM-IV lifetime abuse/dependence, frequency of use, and recency of use. Sixty males with schizophrenia/schizoaffective disorder and 17 healthy males were recruited. The two groups were matched for age, years of education, and premorbid IQ. Medical history, substance use, and psychiatric symptoms were assessed. A neuropsychological battery was also administered to assess attention/processing speed, executive functions, memory, and perceptual organisation. Substance use within 24 hours of cognitive assessment was screened by urine analysis, and a range of confounds were controlled. In the schizophrenia group, 44 participants met DSM-IV criteria for lifetime cannabis abuse/dependence. In addition, there were three mutually exclusive frequency-of-cannabis-use subgroups comprising ""high"" frequency users (n=11), ""medium"" frequency users (n=7), and ""low"" frequency users (n=34) over the preceding year. There were also four mutually exclusive recency-of-cannabis-use categories comprising ""cannabis abuse/dependence in the past week"" (n=11 users), ""non-dependent cannabis use in the past week"" (n=7 users), ""non-dependent cannabis use in the past month, but prior to the pastweek"" (n=7 users), and ""non-dependent cannabis use prior to the past month"" (n=9 users). The control group performed better than the schizophrenia group in all cognitive domains. Within the schizophrenia group, a larger proportion of participants with lifetime cannabis abuse/dependence demonstrated better performance than those without lifetime abuse/ dependence on a component of psychomotor speed. Frequency and recency of cannabis use were also associated with better neuropsychological performance, predominantly in the domains of attention/processing speed and executive functions. In conclusion, cannabis use is associated with enhanced cognitive functioning in schizophrenia. Implications of the results, limitations of the study, and directions for future research are discussed. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2022 APA, all rights reserved)"	885	0	1	2	2	2	2	1	1	0	3	1	0	2	2	5	4	5	5	8	2
Mechanisms of deliberation during preferential choice: Perspectives from computational modeling and individual differences.	2019	Decision	2325-9965	6	1	77-107	"Pleskac, Timothy J; Yu, Shuli; Hopwood, Christopher; Liu, Taosheng"	English	"computational models of decision making typically assume as people deliberate between options they mentally simulate outcomes from each one and integrate valuations of these outcomes to form a preference. in two studies, we investigated this deliberation process using a task where participants make a series of decisions between a certain and an uncertain option, which were shown as dynamic visual samples that represented possible payoffs. we developed and validated a method of reverse correlational analysis for the task that measures how this time-varying signal was used to make a choice. the first study used this method to examine how information processing during deliberation differed from a perceptual analog of the task. we found that participants were less sensitive to each sample of information during preferential choice. in a second study, we investigated how these different measures of deliberation were related to impulsivity and drug and alcohol use. we found that although properties of the deliberation process were not related to impulsivity, some aspects of the process may be related to substance use. in particular, alcohol abuse was related to diminished sensitivity to the payoff information and drug use was related to how the initial starting point of evidence accumulation. we synthesized our results with a rank-dependent sequential sampling model which suggests that participants allocated more attentional weight to larger potential payoffs during preferential choice."	10.1037/dec0000092	Test Construction; *Decision Making; *Computational Modeling; *Impulsiveness; *Individual Differences; *Drug Usage; Test Validity; Alcohol Use	"Computational models of decision making typically assume as people deliberate between options they mentally simulate outcomes from each one and integrate valuations of these outcomes to form a preference. In two studies, we investigated this deliberation process using a task where participants make a series of decisions between a certain and an uncertain option, which were shown as dynamic visual samples that represented possible payoffs. We developed and validated a method of reverse correlational analysis for the task that measures how this time-varying signal was used to make a choice. The first study used this method to examine how information processing during deliberation differed from a perceptual analog of the task. We found that participants were less sensitive to each sample of information during preferential choice. In a second study, we investigated how these different measures of deliberation were related to impulsivity and drug and alcohol use. We found that although properties of the deliberation process were not related to impulsivity, some aspects of the process may be related to substance use. In particular, alcohol abuse was related to diminished sensitivity to the payoff information and drug use was related to how the initial starting point of evidence accumulation. We synthesized our results with a rank-dependent sequential sampling model which suggests that participants allocated more attentional weight to larger potential payoffs during preferential choice. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2023 APA, all rights reserved)"	285	0	0	0	0	0	3	0	0	3	0	3	3	0	0	2	1	2	2	3	3
Effects of psychopathy on neurocognitive domains of impulsivity in abstinent opiate and stimulant users.	2021	Frontiers in Psychiatry		12	"Ahn, WY, Vasilev, G, Lee, SH, Busemeyer, JR, Kruschke, JK, & Bechara, A, et al.Decision-making in stimulant and opiate addicts in protracted abstinence: evidence from computational modeling with pure users. Front Psychol. (2014) 5:849 https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/25161631 https://dx.doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2014.00849 2014-38854-001."		"Psederska, Elena; Thomson, Nicholas D; Bozgunov, Kiril; Nedelchev, Dimitar; Vasilev, Georgi; Vassileva, Jasmin"	English	"psychopathy and substance use disorders (suds) are both characterized by neurocognitive impairments reflecting higher levels of impulsivity such as reward-driven decision-making and deficient inhibitory control. previous studies suggest that psychopathy may exacerbate decision-making deficits, but it may be unrelated to other neurocognitive impairments among substance dependent individuals (sdis). the aim of the present study was to examine the role of psychopathy and its interpersonal-affective and impulsive-antisocial dimensions in moderating the relationships between dependence on different classes of drugs and neurocognitive domains of impulsivity. method: we tested 693 participants (112 heroin mono-dependent individuals, 71 heroin polysubstance dependent individuals, 115 amphetamine mono-dependent individuals, 76 amphetamine polysubstance dependent individuals, and 319 non-substance dependent control individuals). participants were administered the psychopathy checklist: screening version (pcl:sv) and seven neurocognitive tasks measuring impulsive choice/decision-making (iowa gambling task; cambridge gambling task; kirby delay discounting task; balloon analog risk task), and impulsive action/response inhibition (go/no-go task, immediate memory task, and stop signal task). a series of hierarchical multiple regressions revealed that the interpersonal-affective dimension of psychopathy moderated the association between decision-making, response inhibition and both amphetamine and heroin dependence, albeit differently. for amphetamine users, low levels of interpersonal-affective traits predicted poor decision-making on the iowa gambling task and better response inhibition on the stop signal task. in contrast, in heroin users high interpersonal-affective psychopathy traits predicted lower risk taking on the cambridge gambling task and better response inhibition on the go/no-go task. the impulsive-antisocial dimension of psychopathy predicted poor response inhibition in both amphetamine and heroin users. our findings reveal that psychopathy and its dimensions had both common and unique effects on neurocognitive function in heroin and amphetamine dependent individuals. our results suggest that the specific interactions between psychopathy dimensions and dependence on different classes of drugs may lead to either deficient or superior decision-making and response inhibition performance in sdis, suggesting that psychopathy may paradoxically play a protective role for some neurocognitive functions in specific subtypes of substance users."	10.3389/fpsyt.2021.660810	*Decision Making; *Substance Use Disorder; *Impulsiveness; *Psychopathy; *Neurocognition; *Amphetamines; *Heroin; *Opiates	"Background: Psychopathy and substance use disorders (SUDs) are both characterized by neurocognitive impairments reflecting higher levels of impulsivity such as reward-driven decision-making and deficient inhibitory control. Previous studies suggest that psychopathy may exacerbate decision-making deficits, but it may be unrelated to other neurocognitive impairments among substance dependent individuals (SDIs). The aim of the present study was to examine the role of psychopathy and its interpersonal-affective and impulsive-antisocial dimensions in moderating the relationships between dependence on different classes of drugs and neurocognitive domains of impulsivity. Method: We tested 693 participants (112 heroin mono-dependent individuals, 71 heroin polysubstance dependent individuals, 115 amphetamine mono-dependent individuals, 76 amphetamine polysubstance dependent individuals, and 319 non-substance dependent control individuals). Participants were administered the Psychopathy Checklist: Screening Version (PCL:SV) and seven neurocognitive tasks measuring impulsive choice/decision-making (Iowa Gambling Task; Cambridge Gambling Task; Kirby Delay Discounting Task; Balloon Analog Risk Task), and impulsive action/response inhibition (Go/No-Go Task, Immediate Memory Task, and Stop Signal Task). Results: A series of hierarchical multiple regressions revealed that the interpersonal-affective dimension of psychopathy moderated the association between decision-making, response inhibition and both amphetamine and heroin dependence, albeit differently. For amphetamine users, low levels of interpersonal-affective traits predicted poor decision-making on the Iowa Gambling Task and better response inhibition on the Stop Signal task. In contrast, in heroin users high interpersonal-affective psychopathy traits predicted lower risk taking on the Cambridge Gambling Task and better response inhibition on the Go/No-Go task. The impulsive-antisocial dimension of psychopathy predicted poor response inhibition in both amphetamine and heroin users. Conclusions: Our findings reveal that psychopathy and its dimensions had both common and unique effects on neurocognitive function in heroin and amphetamine dependent individuals. Our results suggest that the specific interactions between psychopathy dimensions and dependence on different classes of drugs may lead to either deficient or superior decision-making and response inhibition performance in SDIs, suggesting that psychopathy may paradoxically play a protective role for some neurocognitive functions in specific subtypes of substance users. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2023 APA, all rights reserved)"	109	0	1	2	2	2	2	0	0	1	0	4	4	1	1	0	0	4	1	8	7
The effects of combination levodopa-ropinirole on cognitive improvement and treatment outcome in individuals with cocaine use disorder: A bayesian mediation analysis.	2021	Drug and Alcohol Dependence	0376-8716	225	"Aharonovich, E., Hasin, D.S., Brooks, A.C., Liu, X., Bisaga, A., & Nunes, E.V. (2006). Cognitive deficits predict low treatment retention in cocaine dependent patients. Drug Alcohol Depend. 81, 313-322. https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/16171953 https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2005.08.003 2006-01702-013."		"Schmitz, Joy M; Suchting, Robert; Green, Charles E; Webber, Heather E; Vincent, Jessica; Moeller, F. Gerard; Lane, Scott D"	English	"chronic cocaine users show impairments in cognitive processes associated with dopamine (da) circuitry. medications aimed at bolstering cognitive functions via da modulation might enhance treatment outcome. the trial used a double-blind, double-dummy, parallel-group design with four treatment arms comparing placebo (plc) to levodopa/carbidopa 800 mg/200 mg alone (lr0), levodopa plus extended release (xr) ropinirole 2 mg (lr2) or xr ropinirole 4 mg (lr4). adults (n = 110) with cocaine use disorder attended thrice weekly clinic visits for 10 weeks. potential cognitive mediators assessed at week 5 consisted of measures of decision-making (iowa gambling task, risky decision-making task), attention/impulsivity (immediate memory task), motivation (progressive ratio task), and cognitive control (cocaine stoop task). the primary outcome measure was the treatment effectiveness score (tes) calculated as the number of cocaine-negative urines collected from weeks 6-10. bayesian mediation examined indirect and total effects of the relationships between each active treatment (compared to plc) and tes. total (direct) effects were supported for lr0 and lr2, but not for lr4. indirect effects were tested for each mediator. notably, 22.3 % and 35.4 % of the total effects of lr0 and lr2 on tes were mediated by changes in attention/impulsivity. the hypothesized mediation effect was strongest for levodopa plus 2 mg ropinirole, indicating that this da medication combination predicted change (improvement) in attention/impulsivity, which in turn predicted change (reduction) in cocaine use. this finding provides modest support for cognitive enhancement as a target for medications to treat cocaine use disorder."	10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2021.108800	*Cocaine; *Substance Use Disorder; Bayesian Analysis; Statistical Probability; Treatment Outcomes; *Cognitive Remediation; *Dopamine Agonists; *Levodopa; Randomized Clinical Trials	"Background: Chronic cocaine users show impairments in cognitive processes associated with dopamine (DA) circuitry. Medications aimed at bolstering cognitive functions via DA modulation might enhance treatment outcome. Methods: The trial used a double-blind, double-dummy, parallel-group design with four treatment arms comparing placebo (PLC) to levodopa/carbidopa 800 mg/200 mg alone (LR0), levodopa plus extended release (XR) ropinirole 2 mg (LR2) or XR ropinirole 4 mg (LR4). Adults (n = 110) with cocaine use disorder attended thrice weekly clinic visits for 10 weeks. Potential cognitive mediators assessed at week 5 consisted of measures of decision-making (Iowa Gambling Task, Risky Decision-Making Task), attention/impulsivity (Immediate Memory Task), motivation (Progressive Ratio task), and cognitive control (Cocaine Stoop task). The primary outcome measure was the treatment effectiveness score (TES) calculated as the number of cocaine-negative urines collected from weeks 6-10. Results: Bayesian mediation examined indirect and total effects of the relationships between each active treatment (compared to PLC) and TES. Total (direct) effects were supported for LR0 and LR2, but not for LR4. Indirect effects were tested for each mediator. Notably, 22.3 % and 35.4 % of the total effects of LR0 and LR2 on TES were mediated by changes in attention/impulsivity. Conclusions: The hypothesized mediation effect was strongest for levodopa plus 2 mg ropinirole, indicating that this DA medication combination predicted change (improvement) in attention/impulsivity, which in turn predicted change (reduction) in cocaine use. This finding provides modest support for cognitive enhancement as a target for medications to treat cocaine use disorder. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	206	0	1	0	0	4	4	0	0	1	0	3	3	1	1	0	3	1	0	1	5
An improved cognitive model of the Iowa and Soochow Gambling Tasks with regard to model fitting performance and tests of parameter consistency	2015	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	1664-1078	6			"Dai, JY; Kerestes, R; Upton, DJ; Busemeyer, JR; Stout, JC"	English	"the iowa gambling task (igt) and the soochow gambling task (sgt) are two experience based risky decision making tasks for examining decision making deficits in clinical populations. several cognitive models, including the expectancy-valence learning (evl) model and the prospect valence learning (pvl) model, have been developed to disentangle the motivational, cognitive, and response processes underlying the explicit choices in these tasks. the purpose of the current study was to develop an improved model that can fit empirical data better than the evl and pvl models and, in addition, produce more consistent parameter estimates across the igt and sgt. twenty-six opiate users (mean age 34.23; sd 8.79) and 27 control participants (mean age 35; sd 10.44) completed both tasks. eighteen cognitive models varying in evaluation, updating, and choice rules were fit to individual data and their performances were compared to that of a statistical baseline model to find a best fitting model. the results showed that the model combining the prospect utility function treating gains and losses separately, the decay-reinforcement updating rule, and the trial-independent choice rule performed the best in both tasks. furthermore, the winning model produced more consistent individual parameter estimates across the two tasks than any of the other models."	10.3389/fpsyg.2015.00229	ALCOHOL; CHOICE; COCAINE ABUSERS; cognitive modeling; DAMAGE; DECISION-MAKING; DEFICITS; INDIVIDUALS; Iowa Gambling Task; LEARNING-MODELS; opiate users; parameter consistency; PREFRONTAL CORTEX; Soochow Gambling Task; STRATEGY USE	"The Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) and the Soochow Gambling Task (SGT) are two experience based risky decision making tasks for examining decision making deficits in clinical populations. Several cognitive models, including the expectancy-valence learning (EVL) model and the prospect valence learning (PVL) model, have been developed to disentangle the motivational, cognitive, and response processes underlying the explicit choices in these tasks. The purpose of the current study was to develop an improved model that can fit empirical data better than the EVL and PVL models and, in addition, produce more consistent parameter estimates across the IGT and SGT. Twenty-six opiate users (mean age 34.23; SD 8.79) and 27 control participants (mean age 35; SD 10.44) completed both tasks. Eighteen cognitive models varying in evaluation, updating, and choice rules were fit to individual data and their performances were compared to that of a statistical baseline model to find a best fitting model. The results showed that the model combining the prospect utility function treating gains and losses separately, the decay-reinforcement updating rule, and the trial-independent choice rule performed the best in both tasks. Furthermore, the winning model produced more consistent individual parameter estimates across the two tasks than any of the other models."	9	1	2	1	3	3	1	2	0	2	2	2	2	3	3	3	2	3	3	0	0
Cognitive mechanisms underlying risky decision-making in chronic cannabis users	2010	JOURNAL OF MATHEMATICAL PSYCHOLOGY	0022-2496	54	1	28-38	"Fridberg, DJ; Queller, S; Ahn, WY; Kim, W; Bishara, AJ; Busemeyer, JR; Porrino, L; Stout, JC"	English	"chronic cannabis users are known to be impaired on a test of decision-making, the iowa gambling task (igt). computational models of the psychological processes underlying this impairment have the potential to provide a rich description of the psychological characteristics of poor performers within particular clinical groups. we used two computational models of igt performance, the expectancy valence learning model (evl) and the prospect valence learning model (pvl), to assess motivational, memory, and response processes in 17 chronic cannabis abusers and 15 control participants. model comparison and simulation methods revealed that the pvl model explained the observed data better than the evl model. results indicated that cannabis abusers tended to be under-influenced by loss magnitude, treating each loss as a constant and minor negative outcome regardless of the size of the loss. in addition, they were more influenced by gains, and made decisions that were less consistent with their expectancies relative to non-using controls."	10.1016/j.jmp.2009.10.002	ABUSERS; BEHAVIOR; Cannabis; Cognitive modeling; Decision-making; DEFICITS; FUTURE CONSEQUENCES; INSENSITIVITY; Iowa Gambling Task; LEARNING-MODELS; PREFRONTAL CORTEX; REINFORCEMENT; SENSATION-SEEKING; WORKING-MEMORY	"Chronic cannabis users are known to be impaired on a test of decision-making, the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT). Computational models of the psychological processes underlying this impairment have the potential to provide a rich description of the psychological characteristics of poor performers within particular clinical groups. We used two computational models of IGT performance, the Expectancy Valence Learning model (EVL) and the Prospect Valence Learning model (PVL), to assess motivational, memory, and response processes in 17 chronic cannabis abusers and 15 control participants. Model comparison and simulation methods revealed that the PVL model explained the observed data better than the EVL model. Results indicated that cannabis abusers tended to be under-influenced by loss magnitude, treating each loss as a constant and minor negative outcome regardless of the size of the loss. In addition, they were more influenced by gains, and made decisions that were less consistent with their expectancies relative to non-using controls. (C) 2009 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved."	8	1	2	1	3	3	1	2	0	2	2	2	2	3	3	3	2	3	3	0	0
Absolute performance of reinforcement-learning models for the Iowa Gambling Task.	2014	Decision	2325-9965	1	3	161-183	"Steingroever, Helen; Wetzels, Ruud; Wagenmakers, Eric-Jan"	English	"decision-making deficits in clinical populations are often studied using the iowa gambling task (igt). performance on the igt can be decomposed in its constituent psychological processes by means of cognitive modeling analyses. however, conclusions about the hypothesized psychological processes are valid only if the model provides an adequate account of the data. in this article, we systematically assessed absolute model performance of the expectancy valence (ev) model, the prospect valence learning (pvl) model, and a hybrid version of both models-the pvl-delta model-using 2 different these methods assess (a) whether a model provides an acceptable fit to an observed choice pattern, and (b) whether the parameters obtained from model fitting can be used to generate the observed choice pattern. our results show that all models provided an acceptable fit to 2 stylized data sets; however, when the model parameters were used to generate choices, only the pvl-delta model captured the qualitative patterns in the data. these findings were confirmed by fitting the models to 5 published igt data sets. our results highlight that a model's ability to fit a particular choice pattern does not guarantee that the model can also generate that same choice pattern. future applications of rl models should carefully assess absolute model performance to avoid premature conclusions about the psychological processes that drive performance on the igt."	10.1037/dec0000005	Gambling; *Decision Making; *Learning; *Reinforcement; *Performance; Statistical Probability; *Models	"Decision-making deficits in clinical populations are often studied using the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT). Performance on the IGT can be decomposed in its constituent psychological processes by means of cognitive modeling analyses. However, conclusions about the hypothesized psychological processes are valid only if the model provides an adequate account of the data. In this article, we systematically assessed absolute model performance of the Expectancy Valence (EV) model, the Prospect Valence Learning (PVL) model, and a hybrid version of both models-the PVL-Delta model-using 2 different methods. These methods assess (a) whether a model provides an acceptable fit to an observed choice pattern, and (b) whether the parameters obtained from model fitting can be used to generate the observed choice pattern. Our results show that all models provided an acceptable fit to 2 stylized data sets; however, when the model parameters were used to generate choices, only the PVL-Delta model captured the qualitative patterns in the data. These findings were confirmed by fitting the models to 5 published IGT data sets. Our results highlight that a model's ability to fit a particular choice pattern does not guarantee that the model can also generate that same choice pattern. Future applications of RL models should carefully assess absolute model performance to avoid premature conclusions about the psychological processes that drive performance on the IGT. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	656	1	2	1	3	3	1	2	0	2	2	2	2	3	3	3	2	3	3	0	4
Anticipatory stress restores decision-making deficits in heavy drinkers by increasing sensitivity to losses.	2011	Drug and Alcohol Dependence	0376-8716	117	3-Feb	204-210	"Gullo, Matthew J; Stieger, Adam A"	English	"substance abusers are characterized by hypersensitivity to reward. this leads to maladaptive decisions generally, as well as those on laboratory-based decision-making tasks, such as the iowa gambling task (igt). negative affect has also been shown to disrupt the decision-making of healthy individuals, particularly decisions made under uncertainty. neuropsychological theories of learning, including the somatic marker hypothesis (smh), argue this occurs by amplifying affective responses to punishment. in substance abusers, this might serve to rebalance their sensitivity to reward with punishment, and improve decision-making. before completing the igt, 45 heavy and 47 light drinkers were randomly assigned to a control condition, or led to believe they had to give a stressful public speech. igt performance was analyzed with the expectancy-valence (ev) learning model. working memory and iq were also assessed. heavy drinkers made more disadvantageous decisions than light drinkers, due to higher attention to gains (versus losses) on the igt. anticipatory stress increased participants' attention to losses, significantly improving heavy drinkers' decision-making. anticipatory stress increased attention to losses, effectively restoring decision-making deficits in heavy drinkers by rebalancing their reward sensitivity with punishment sensitivity."	10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2011.02.002	*Decision Making; *Stress; Cognitive Impairment; *Expectations; *Binge Drinking; *Sensitization	"Background: Substance abusers are characterized by hypersensitivity to reward. This leads to maladaptive decisions generally, as well as those on laboratory-based decision-making tasks, such as the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT). Negative affect has also been shown to disrupt the decision-making of healthy individuals, particularly decisions made under uncertainty. Neuropsychological theories of learning, including the Somatic Marker Hypothesis (SMH), argue this occurs by amplifying affective responses to punishment. In substance abusers, this might serve to rebalance their sensitivity to reward with punishment, and improve decision-making. Methods: Before completing the IGT, 45 heavy and 47 light drinkers were randomly assigned to a control condition, or led to believe they had to give a stressful public speech. IGT performance was analyzed with the Expectancy-Valence (EV) learning model. Working memory and IQ were also assessed. Results: Heavy drinkers made more disadvantageous decisions than light drinkers, due to higher attention to gains (versus losses) on the IGT. Anticipatory stress increased participants' attention to losses, significantly improving heavy drinkers' decision-making. Conclusions: Anticipatory stress increased attention to losses, effectively restoring decision-making deficits in heavy drinkers by rebalancing their reward sensitivity with punishment sensitivity. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	762	0	0	0	0	0	5	0	0	3	1	0	1	0	0	2	1	2	2	2	3
Similarities between adult female crack cocaine users and adolescents in risky decision-making scenarios.	2016	Journal of Clinical and Experimental Neuropsychology	1380-3395	38	7	795-810	"Kluwe-Schiavon, Bruno; Viola, Thiago Wendt; Sanvicente-Vieira, Breno; Pezzi, Julio Carlos; Grassi-Oliveira, Rodrigo"	English	"although previous studies have shown that both adolescence and drug addiction can influence risk-taking and decision-making processes, the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. specifically, there is a lack of evidence as to whether these conditions could affect deliberative and affective processes involved in risk taking, such as feedback learning and valuation of profits and risk. the objectives were to compare the role of feedback and the use of information in risk-taking behavior between female crack cocaine users and adolescents. additionally, we aimed to investigate whether sensation seeking, impulsivity, depressive and anxiety symptoms, executive functioning, and working memory performance could explain differences in risk-taking behavior. method: this is a quasi-experimental study comparing 27 low-income adult female crack cocaine users (cu) to 18 female adolescents (ad) within two conditions (no-feedback or delayed-feedback) of the columbia card task (cct). in order to investigate cct reference values for adult females, we also included 20 female non-drug-users with regular education and income as a reference group (rg). a similar pattern of risk-taking behavior was found between cu and ad within the cct no-feedback condition. when delayed feedback was provided, ad exhibited a similar pattern of risk-taking behavior in the no-feedback condition, while cu showed a reduction of risk-taking behavior. both groups exhibited higher risk taking than the rg within the cct no-feedback condition, but only the ad group showed higher risk-taking behavior within the cct feedback condition. depressive symptom severity and working memory deficits were associated with higher risk-taking behaviors in cu. executive functioning deficits were associated with higher risk-taking behavior in ad. adult female crack cocaine users and female adolescents took similar risks during risky decision-making scenarios where feedback about their own performance was absent. however, when participants were provided with such feedback, it modulated risk-taking behaviors in crack cocaine users but not in adolescents."	10.1080/13803395.2016.1167171	*Risk Factors; *Addiction; *Drug Abuse; *Crack Cocaine	"Background: Although previous studies have shown that both adolescence and drug addiction can influence risk-taking and decision-making processes, the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Specifically, there is a lack of evidence as to whether these conditions could affect deliberative and affective processes involved in risk taking, such as feedback learning and valuation of profits and risk. Objectives: The objectives were to compare the role of feedback and the use of information in risk-taking behavior between female crack cocaine users and adolescents. Additionally, we aimed to investigate whether sensation seeking, impulsivity, depressive and anxiety symptoms, executive functioning, and working memory performance could explain differences in risk-taking behavior. Method: This is a quasi-experimental study comparing 27 low-income adult female crack cocaine users (CU) to 18 female adolescents (AD) within two conditions (no-feedback or delayed-feedback) of the Columbia Card Task (CCT). In order to investigate CCT reference values for adult females, we also included 20 female non-drug-users with regular education and income as a reference group (RG). Results: A similar pattern of risk-taking behavior was found between CU and AD within the CCT no-feedback condition. When delayed feedback was provided, AD exhibited a similar pattern of risk-taking behavior in the no-feedback condition, while CU showed a reduction of risk-taking behavior. Both groups exhibited higher risk taking than the RG within the CCT no-feedback condition, but only the AD group showed higher risk-taking behavior within the CCT feedback condition. Depressive symptom severity and working memory deficits were associated with higher risk-taking behaviors in CU. Executive functioning deficits were associated with higher risk-taking behavior in AD. Conclusions: Adult female crack cocaine users and female adolescents took similar risks during risky decision-making scenarios where feedback about their own performance was absent. However, when participants were provided with such feedback, it modulated risk-taking behaviors in crack cocaine users but not in adolescents. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	485	0	1	0	0	4	4	0	0	1	0	3	3	1	1	0	0	4	1	1	7
"Assessing general versus specific liability for externalizing problems in adolescence: Concurrent and prospective prediction of symptoms of conduct disorder, ADHD, and substance use."	2022	Journal of Psychopathology and Clinical Science	2769-7541	131	7	793-807	"Perkins, Emily R; Joyner, Keanan J; Foell, Jens; Drislane, Laura E; Brislin, Sarah J; Frick, Paul J; Yancey, James R; Soto, Elia F; Ganley, Colleen M; Keel, Pamela K; Sica, Claudio; Flor, Herta; Nees, Frauke; Banaschewski, Tobias; Bokde, Arun L. W; Desrivieres, Sylvane; Grigis, Antoine; Garavan, Hugh; Gowland, Penny; Heinz, Andreas; Ittermann, Bernd; Martinot, Jean-Luc; Paillere Martinot, Marie-Laure; Artiges, Eric; Papadopoulos Orfanos, Dimitri; Poustka, Luise; Hohmann, Sarah; Frohner, Juliane H; Smolka, Michael N; Walter, Henrik; Whelan, Robert; Schumann, Gunter; The IMAGEN Consortium; Patrick, Christopher J"	English	"this study explored the generality versus specificity of two trait-liability factors for externalizing problems-disinhibition and callousness-in the concurrent and prospective prediction of symptoms of conduct disorder, attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (adhd), and substance use (i.e., alcohol use disorder and history of illicit substance use). disinhibition involves an impulsive, unrestrained cognitive-behavioral style; callousness entails a dispositional lack of social-emotional sensitivity. participants were european adolescents from the multisite imagen project who completed questionnaires and clinical interviews at ages 14 (n = 1,504, mage = 14.41, 51.13% female) and 16 (n = 1,407, mage = 16.46, 51.88% female). disinhibition was related concurrently and prospectively to greater symptoms of conduct disorder, adhd, and alcohol use disorder; higher scores on a general externalizing factor; and greater likelihood of having tried an illicit substance. callousness was selectively related to greater conduct disorder symptoms. these findings indicate disinhibition confers broad liability for externalizing spectrum disorders, perhaps due to its affiliated deficits in executive function. in contrast, callousness appears to represent more specific liability for antagonistic (aggressive/exploitative) forms of externalizing, as exemplified by antisocial behavior. results support the utility of developmental-ontogenetic and hierarchical-dimensional models of psychopathology and have important implications for early assessment of risk for externalizing problems."	10.1037/abn0000743	*Alcohol Use Disorder; *Attention Deficit Disorder with Hyperactivity; *Drug Usage; *Externalization; Symptoms; *Conduct Disorder; Adolescent Psychopathology; Behavioral Disinhibition	"This study explored the generality versus specificity of two trait-liability factors for externalizing problems-disinhibition and callousness-in the concurrent and prospective prediction of symptoms of conduct disorder, attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), and substance use (i.e., alcohol use disorder and history of illicit substance use). Disinhibition involves an impulsive, unrestrained cognitive-behavioral style; callousness entails a dispositional lack of social-emotional sensitivity. Participants were European adolescents from the multisite IMAGEN project who completed questionnaires and clinical interviews at ages 14 (N = 1,504, Mage = 14.41, 51.13% female) and 16 (N = 1,407, Mage = 16.46, 51.88% female). Disinhibition was related concurrently and prospectively to greater symptoms of conduct disorder, ADHD, and alcohol use disorder; higher scores on a general externalizing factor; and greater likelihood of having tried an illicit substance. Callousness was selectively related to greater conduct disorder symptoms. These findings indicate disinhibition confers broad liability for externalizing spectrum disorders, perhaps due to its affiliated deficits in executive function. In contrast, callousness appears to represent more specific liability for antagonistic (aggressive/exploitative) forms of externalizing, as exemplified by antisocial behavior. Results support the utility of developmental-ontogenetic and hierarchical-dimensional models of psychopathology and have important implications for early assessment of risk for externalizing problems. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2022 APA, all rights reserved) Impact Statement General Scientific Summary-This study suggests that assessing dispositional traits of disinhibition and callousness in adolescence can provide important predictive information about later-emerging behavior problems. Further, these trait-risk factors differ in the specificity of their relations with externalizing psychopathology, with disinhibition promoting overall risk and callousness predicting risk for conduct problems in particular. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2022 APA, all rights reserved)"	169	0	1	2	2	2	2	0	0	1	0	3	3	1	1	0	0	4	1	8	7
Toward an understanding of decision making in severe mental illness.	2014	The Journal of Neuropsychiatry and Clinical Neurosciences	0895-0172	26	3	196-213	"Caceda, Ricardo; Nemeroff, Charles B; Harvey, Philip D"	English	"a commonality of patients with major psychiatric disorders is their propensity to make poor decisions, which is intimately related to poor real-life outcomes. the authors reviewed the literature on decision making as applied to severe psychiatric disorders, with particular focus on advances in cognitive neuroscience. deficits in reward sensitivity, avoidance learning, and temporal discounting are reported in depression. besides abnormalities in hedonic capacity, other cognitive distortions required for flexible control of behavior occur in patients with bipolar disorder and schizophrenia. a conceptual framework of abnormal decision making in mental illness could generate targeted interventions to improve quality of life and clinical outcomes."	10.1176/appi.neuropsych.12110268	*Decision Making; *Mental Disorders; Treatment Outcomes; Quality of Life; *Cognitive Neuroscience; *Serious Mental Illness	"A commonality of patients with major psychiatric disorders is their propensity to make poor decisions, which is intimately related to poor real-life outcomes. The authors reviewed the literature on decision making as applied to severe psychiatric disorders, with particular focus on advances in cognitive neuroscience. Deficits in reward sensitivity, avoidance learning, and temporal discounting are reported in depression. Besides abnormalities in hedonic capacity, other cognitive distortions required for flexible control of behavior occur in patients with bipolar disorder and schizophrenia. A conceptual framework of abnormal decision making in mental illness could generate targeted interventions to improve quality of life and clinical outcomes. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	631	0	0	0	1	1	0	0	0	3	1	0	5	0	0	2	1	2	2	5	3
Aberrant reward prediction errors in young adult at-risk alcohol users.	2021	Addiction Biology	13556215	26	1	10-Jan	"Cao, Zhipeng; Bennett, Marc; O'Halloran, Laura; Pragulbickaite, Gabija; Flanagan, Luke; McHugh, Louise; Whelan, Robert"		"previous studies suggest that individuals with substance use disorder have abnormally large responses to unexpected outcomes (reward prediction errors [rpes]). however, there is much less information on rpe in individuals at risk of alcohol misuse, prior to neurobiological adaptations that might result from sustained alcohol use. here, participants (mean age 23.77 years, range 18-32 years) performed the electrophysiological monetary incentive delay task. this task involved responding to a target stimulus following reward incentive cues to win, or avoid losing, the cued reward while brain activity was recorded under 64-channel eeg. the alcohol use disorders identification test (audit) was used to quantify at-risk alcohol use, with high (n = 22, mean audit score: 13.82) and low (n = 22, mean audit score: 5.77) alcohol use groups. trial-by-trial rpes were estimated using a rescorla-wagner reinforcement model based on behavioral data. a single-trial analysis revealed that the feedback-related negativity (frn) and feedback p3 (fb-p3) event-related potential components were significantly modulated by rpes. there was increased rpe-related fb-p3 amplitude for those in the high alcohol use group. next, the mean amplitude of erps elicited by positive and negative rpes were compared between groups. we found that high alcohol use participants had attenuated frn amplitude in contrast with low alcohol use participants for both positive and negative rpes but enhanced fb-p3 for both positive and negative rpe. these results, with differences in rpe in an at-risk group, suggest that rpe a potential vulnerability marker for alcohol use disorder."	10.1111/adb.12873	"computational model; REWARD (Psychology); reward prediction error; RESEARCH funding; RESEARCH; EVOKED potentials (Electrophysiology); MOTIVATION (Psychology); COMPARATIVE studies; ADAPTABILITY (Personality); ALCOHOL drinking; alcohol, AUDIT; ALCOHOLISM; BRAIN physiology; DIAGNOSIS of alcoholism; EVALUATION research; human; MEDICAL cooperation; PROMPTS (Psychology); Rescorla_Wagner; RESEARCH methodology; THOUGHT & thinking; YOUNG adults"	"Previous studies suggest that individuals with substance use disorder have abnormally large responses to unexpected outcomes (reward prediction errors [RPEs]). However, there is much less information on RPE in individuals at risk of alcohol misuse, prior to neurobiological adaptations that might result from sustained alcohol use. Here, participants (mean age 23.77 years, range 18-32 years) performed the electrophysiological monetary incentive delay task. This task involved responding to a target stimulus following reward incentive cues to win, or avoid losing, the cued reward while brain activity was recorded under 64-channel EEG. The Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test (AUDIT) was used to quantify at-risk alcohol use, with high (n = 22, mean AUDIT score: 13.82) and low (n = 22, mean AUDIT score: 5.77) alcohol use groups. Trial-by-trial RPEs were estimated using a Rescorla-Wagner reinforcement model based on behavioral data. A single-trial analysis revealed that the feedback-related negativity (FRN) and feedback P3 (fb-P3) event-related potential components were significantly modulated by RPEs. There was increased RPE-related fb-P3 amplitude for those in the high alcohol use group. Next, the mean amplitude of ERPs elicited by positive and negative RPEs were compared between groups. We found that high alcohol use participants had attenuated FRN amplitude in contrast with low alcohol use participants for both positive and negative RPEs but enhanced fb-P3 for both positive and negative RPE. These results, with differences in RPE in an at-risk group, suggest that RPE a potential vulnerability marker for alcohol use disorder. [ABSTRACT FROM AUTHOR]"	1908	0	1	2	2	2	2	0	0	1	0	4	4	1	1	0	3	1	0	8	6
Dissociable processes underlying decisions in the Iowa Gambling Task: A new integrative framework.	2009	Behavioral and Brain Functions		5	"Bark, R., Dieckmann, S., Bogerts, B., & Northoff, G. (2005). Deficit in decision making in catatonic schizophrenia: an exploratory study. Psychiatry Res 2005, 134:131-141. 2005-04934-003. https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.psychres.2004.04.013"		"Stocco, Andrea; Fum, Danilo; Napoli, Antonio"	English	"the iowa gambling task (igt) is a common paradigm used to study the interactions between emotions and decision making, yet little consensus exists on the cognitive process determining participants' decisions, what affects them, and how these processes interact with each other. a novel conceptual framework is proposed according to which behavior in the igt reflects a balance between two dissociable processes; a cognitively demanding process that tracks each option's long-term payoff, and a lower-level, automatic process that is primarily sensitive to loss frequency and magnitude. a behavioral experiment was carried out with a modified version of igt. in this modified version, participants went through an additional phase of interaction, designed to measure performance without further learning, in which no feedback on individual decisions was given. a secondary distractor task was presented in either the first or the second phase of the experiment. behavioral measures of performance tracking both payoff and frequency sensitivity in choices were collected throughout the experiment. consistent with our framework, the results confirmed that: (a) the two competing cognitive processes can be dissociated; (b) that learning from decision outcomes requires central cognitive resources to estimate long-term payoff; and (c) that the decision phase itself can be carried out during an interfering task once learning has occurred. conclusion: the experimental results support our novel description of the cognitive processes underlying performance in the iowa gambling task. they also suggest that patients' impairments in this and other gambling paradigms can originate from a number of different causes, including a failure in allocating resources among cognitive strategies. this latter interpretation might be particularly useful in explaining the impairments of patients with ventromedial prefrontal cortex lesions and, by extension, the contribution of this brain region to human decision making."	10.1186/1744-9081-5-1	Decision Making; Gambling; *Performance; *Cognitive Processes	"Background: The Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) is a common paradigm used to study the interactions between emotions and decision making, yet little consensus exists on the cognitive process determining participants' decisions, what affects them, and how these processes interact with each other. A novel conceptual framework is proposed according to which behavior in the IGT reflects a balance between two dissociable processes; a cognitively demanding process that tracks each option's long-term payoff, and a lower-level, automatic process that is primarily sensitive to loss frequency and magnitude. Methods: A behavioral experiment was carried out with a modified version of IGT. In this modified version, participants went through an additional phase of interaction, designed to measure performance without further learning, in which no feedback on individual decisions was given. A secondary distractor task was presented in either the first or the second phase of the experiment. Behavioral measures of performance tracking both payoff and frequency sensitivity in choices were collected throughout the experiment. Results: Consistent with our framework, the results confirmed that: (a) the two competing cognitive processes can be dissociated; (b) that learning from decision outcomes requires central cognitive resources to estimate long-term payoff; and (c) that the decision phase itself can be carried out during an interfering task once learning has occurred. Conclusion: The experimental results support our novel description of the cognitive processes underlying performance in the Iowa Gambling Task. They also suggest that patients' impairments in this and other gambling paradigms can originate from a number of different causes, including a failure in allocating resources among cognitive strategies. This latter interpretation might be particularly useful in explaining the impairments of patients with ventromedial prefrontal cortex lesions and, by extension, the contribution of this brain region to human decision making. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	845	0	0	0	0	0	3	0	0	3	1	0	1	0	0	1	5	2	2	3	8
Neurocognitive deficits related to poor decision making in people behind bars	2008	PSYCHONOMIC BULLETIN & REVIEW	1069-9384	15	1	44-51	"Yechiam, E; Kanz, JE; Bechara, A; Stout, JC; Busemeyer, JR; Altmaier, EM; Paulsen, JS"	English	"using a novel quantitative model of repeated choice behavior, we investigated the cognitive processes of criminal offenders incarcerated for various crimes. eighty-one criminals, including violent offenders, drug and sex offenders, drivers operating a vehicle while impaired, and 18 matched controls were tested. the results were also contrasted with those obtained from neurological patients with focal brain lesions in the orbitofrontal cortex and from drug abusers. participants performed the computerized version of the iowa gambling task (bechara, damasio, damasio, & anderson, 1994), and the results were decomposed into specific component processes, using the expectancy valence model (busemeyer & stout, 2002). the findings indicated that whereas all the criminal groups tended to select disadvantageously, the cognitive profiles exhibited by different groups were considerably different. certain subpopulations-most significantly, drug and sex offenders-overweighted potential gains as compared with losses, similar to chronic cocaine abusers. in contrast, assault/murder criminals tended to make less consistent choices and to focus on immediate outcomes and, in these respects, were more similar to patients with orbitofrontal damage. the present cognitive model provides a novel way for building a bridge between cognitive neuroscience and complex human behaviors."	10.3758/PBR.15.1.44	AMYGDALA; BEHAVIOR; COCAINE; MODELS	"Using a novel quantitative model of repeated choice behavior, we investigated the cognitive processes of criminal offenders incarcerated for various crimes. Eighty-one criminals, including violent offenders, drug and sex offenders, drivers operating a vehicle while impaired, and 18 matched controls were tested. The results were also contrasted with those obtained from neurological patients with focal brain lesions in the orbitofrontal cortex and from drug abusers. Participants performed the computerized version of the Iowa gambling task (Bechara, Damasio, Damasio, & Anderson, 1994), and the results were decomposed into specific component processes, using the expectancy valence model (Busemeyer & Stout, 2002). The findings indicated that whereas all the criminal groups tended to select disadvantageously, the cognitive profiles exhibited by different groups were considerably different. Certain subpopulations-most significantly, drug and sex offenders-overweighted potential gains as compared with losses, similar to chronic cocaine abusers. In contrast, assault/murder criminals tended to make less consistent choices and to focus on immediate outcomes and, in these respects, were more similar to patients with orbitofrontal damage. The present cognitive model provides a novel way for building a bridge between cognitive neuroscience and complex human behaviors."	2	0	0	0	0	0	3	0	0	3	1	0	1	0	0	1	1	2	2	3	3
Editorial: bridging the gap with computational and translational psychopharmacology.	2019	Psychopharmacology	333158	236	8	2291-2294	"Flagel, SB; Gordon, JA; Paulus, MP"		"The application of theoretical and computational approaches to the analysis of complex behavior has a rich history in psychology. A shining example of this is the modeling of learning encapsulated elegantly by Rescorla and Wagner (1972), who demonstrated that classical conditioning can be described by a simple mathematical equation. The explanatory power of the Rescorla-Wagner rule and its subsequent expansion into additional areas of behavioral plasticity has enabled the precise mapping of learning parameters onto neural structures and even individual neurons. A plethora of other mathematical models have since been used to describe a variety of behaviors, and to map those behaviors onto their underlying neurobiology. This so-called computational phenotyping is now gaining momentum as a translational tool that can be used to identify process characteristics in both humans and animals with the potential of transforming the field of psychopharmacology. The contributions to this Special Issue on Computational and Translational Psychopharmacology stem from the European Behavioural Pharmacology Society (EBPS) Workshop that was held at the University of Cambridge, in August of 2018. The overarching goal of the workshop was to foster discussion around the nascent subfield we refer to as Computational and Translational Psychopharmacology, and to identify points of convergence for which computational approaches could be used to enhance the translational value of animal and human studies. The manuscripts contained herein demonstrate the potential utility of such approaches and provide a foundation for continuous growth towards a better mechanistic understanding of the complex behaviors that characterize psychiatric conditions and the development of more predictive translational probes."	10.1007/s00213-019-05320-1	DOPAMINE receptors; DOPAMINERGIC neurons; PARTIALLY observable Markov decision processes; PSYCHOPHARMACOLOGY		1963	0	0	0	1	1	0	0	0	3	1	0	5	0	0	2	1	2	2	7	3
Similar Processes Despite Divergent Behavior in Two Commonly Used Measures of Risky Decision Making	2009	JOURNAL OF BEHAVIORAL DECISION MAKING	0894-3257	22	4	435-454	"Bishara, AJ; Pleskac, TJ; Fridberg, DJ; Yechiam, E; Lucas, J; Busemeyer, JR; Finn, PR; Stout, JC"	English	"performance on complex decision-making tasks may depend on a multitude of processes. two such tasks, the iowa gambling task (igt) and balloon analog risk task (bart), are of particular interest because they are associated with real world risky behavior, including illegal drug use. we used cognitive models to disentangle underlying processes in both tasks. whereas behavioral measures front the igt and bart were uncorrelated, cognitive models revealed two reliable cross-task associations. results suggest that the tasks similarly measure loss aversion and decision-consistency processes, but not necessarily the same learning process. additionally, substance-using individuals (and especially stimulant users) performed worse oil the igt than healthy controls did, and this pattern could be explained by reduced decision consistency."	10.1002/bdm.641	ALCOHOL; Balloon Analog Risk Task; EXPERIENCE; FUTURE CONSEQUENCES; IMPULSIVENESS; INSENSITIVITY; Iowa Gambling Task; loss aversion; PERSONALITY; risky decisions; substance use; TAKING PROPENSITY; TASK BART; VENTROMEDIAL PREFRONTAL CORTEX; VENTURESOMENESS	"Performance on complex decision-making tasks may depend on a multitude of processes. Two such tasks, the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) and Balloon Analog Risk Task (BART), are of particular interest because they are associated with real world risky behavior, including illegal drug use. We used cognitive models to disentangle underlying processes in both tasks. Whereas behavioral measures front the IGT and BART were uncorrelated, cognitive models revealed two reliable cross-task associations. Results suggest that the tasks similarly measure loss aversion and decision-consistency processes, but not necessarily the same learning process. Additionally, substance-using individuals (and especially stimulant users) performed worse oil the IGT than healthy controls did, and this pattern could be explained by reduced decision consistency. Copyright (C) 2009 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd."	5	0	1	2	2	2	2	0	0	1	0	3	3	0	0	1	1	2	2	8	3
Evaluation of heterogeneity in pharmacotherapy trials for drug dependence: A Bayesian approach.	2009	The American Journal of Drug and Alcohol Abuse	0095-2990	35	2	95-102	"Green, C. E; Moeller, F. G; Schmitz, J. M; Lucke, J. F; Lane, S. D; Swann, A. C; Lasky, R. E; Carbonari, J. P"	English	"difficulty identifying effective pharmacotherapies for cocaine dependence has led to suggestions that subgroup differences may account for some of the heterogeneity in treatment response. well-attested methodological difficulties associated with these analyses recommend the use of bayesian statistical reasoning for evaluation of salient interaction effects. a secondary data analysis of a previously published, double-blind, randomized controlled trial examines the interaction of decision-making, as measured by the iowa gambling task, and citalopram in increasing longest sustained abstinence from cocaine use. bayesian analysis indicated that there was a 99% chance that improved decision-making enhances response to citalopram. given the strong positive nature of this finding, a formal, quantitative bayesian approach to evaluate the result from the perspective of a skeptic was applied. bayesian statistical reasoning provides a formal means of weighing evidence for the presence of an interaction in scenarios where conventional, frequentist analyses may be less informative."	10.1080/00952990802647503	*Cocaine; *Drug Therapy; *Drug Dependency; *Clinical Trials; *Homogeneity of Variance	"Aims: Difficulty identifying effective pharmacotherapies for cocaine dependence has led to suggestions that subgroup differences may account for some of the heterogeneity in treatment response. Well-attested methodological difficulties associated with these analyses recommend the use of Bayesian statistical reasoning for evaluation of salient interaction effects. Methods: A secondary data analysis of a previously published, double-blind, randomized controlled trial examines the interaction of decision-making, as measured by the Iowa Gambling Task, and citalopram in increasing longest sustained abstinence from cocaine use. Results: Bayesian analysis indicated that there was a 99% chance that improved decision-making enhances response to citalopram. Given the strong positive nature of this finding, a formal, quantitative Bayesian approach to evaluate the result from the perspective of a skeptic was applied. Conclusions: Bayesian statistical reasoning provides a formal means of weighing evidence for the presence of an interaction in scenarios where conventional, Frequentist analyses may be less informative. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	848	0	0	0	0	0	5	0	0	3	1	0	1	0	0	2	3	2	2	2	5
Working memory and decision-making biases in young adults with a family history of alcoholism: Studies from the Oklahoma Family Health Patterns Project.	2006	Alcoholism: Clinical and Experimental Research	0145-6008	30	5	763-773	"Lovallo, William R; Yechiam, Eldad; Sorocco, Kristen H; Vincent, Andrea S; Collins, Frank L"	English	"alcohol misuse is more common in persons with a family history of alcoholism (fh-) than in those with no such history (fh-). among fh+, behavioral disinhibition and male sex seem to signal the presence of an increased risk. this study examined cognitive and behavioral characteristics of 175 nonabusing 18- to 30-year-olds, 87 fh+ and 88 fh-, who were further characterized by their degree of behavioral disinhibition using the sociability scale of the california personality inventory. working memory and decision making were tested using the stroop color-word test and the iowa gambling task, a simulated card game. persons with a family history of alcoholism who were behaviorally disinhibited displayed significantly greater interference on the stroop task than the other subgroups. on the iowa gambling task, fh+ males, but not the females, were significantly more attentive to financial gains than other subgroups, and they had greater consistency in their choice behaviors. persons with a family history of alcoholism, in combination with behavioral disinhibition, appears to signal working memory deficits and in combination with male sex indicates an attraction to the rewarding aspects of a risk-taking challenge. these findings are not secondary to heavy exposure to alcohol or other drugs, but instead reflect intrinsic risk-related familial and personal characteristics of the subjects."	10.1111/j.1530-0277.2006.00089.x	*Decision Making; *Short Term Memory; *Alcoholism; *Family Background; Patient History	"Background: Alcohol misuse is more common in persons with a family history of alcoholism (FH-) than in those with no such history (FH-). Among FH+, behavioral disinhibition and male sex seem to signal the presence of an increased risk. Methods: This study examined cognitive and behavioral characteristics of 175 nonabusing 18- to 30-year-olds, 87 FH+ and 88 FH-, who were further characterized by their degree of behavioral disinhibition using the Sociability scale of the California Personality Inventory. Working memory and decision making were tested using the Stroop Color-Word Test and the Iowa Gambling Task, a simulated card game. Results: Persons with a family history of alcoholism who were behaviorally disinhibited displayed significantly greater interference on the Stroop task than the other subgroups. On the Iowa Gambling Task, FH+ males, but not the females, were significantly more attentive to financial gains than other subgroups, and they had greater consistency in their choice behaviors. Conclusions: Persons with a family history of alcoholism, in combination with behavioral disinhibition, appears to signal working memory deficits and in combination with male sex indicates an attraction to the rewarding aspects of a risk-taking challenge. These findings are not secondary to heavy exposure to alcohol or other drugs, but instead reflect intrinsic risk-related familial and personal characteristics of the subjects. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2023 APA, all rights reserved)"	881	0	0	0	1	1	0	0	0	3	1	0	1	0	0	2	1	2	2	5	3
Neuropsychological comparisons of cocaine versus methamphetamine users: A research synthesis and meta-analysis.	2018	The American Journal of Drug and Alcohol Abuse	0095-2990	44	3	277-293	"Hall, Matthew G; Hauson, Alexander O; Wollman, Scott C; Allen, Kenneth E; Connors, Eric J; Stern, Mark J; Kimmel, Christine L; Stephan, Rick A; Sarkissians, Sharis; Barlet, Brianna D; Grant, Igor"	English	"previous meta-analytical research examining cocaine and methamphetamine separately suggests potentially different neuropsychological profiles associated with each drug. in addition, neuroimaging studies point to distinct structural changes that might underlie differences in neuropsychological functioning. this meta-analysis compared the effect sizes identified in cocaine versus methamphetamine studies across 15 neuropsychological domains. method: investigators searched and coded the literature examining the neuropsychological deficits associated with a history of either cocaine or methamphetamine use. a total of 54 cocaine and 41 methamphetamine studies were selected, yielding sample sizes of 1,718 and 1,297, respectively. moderator analyses were conducted to compare the two drugs across each cognitive domain. data revealed significant differences between the two drugs. specifically, studies of cocaine showed significantly larger effect-size estimates (i.e., poorer performance) in verbal working memory when compared to methamphetamine. further, when compared to cocaine, methamphetamine studies demonstrated significantly larger effect sizes in delayed contextual verbal memory and delayed visual memory. conclusion: overall, cocaine and methamphetamine users share similar neuropsychological profiles. however, cocaine appears to be more associated with working memory impairments, which are typically frontally mediated, while methamphetamine appears to be more associated with memory impairments that are linked with temporal and parietal lobe dysfunction."	10.1080/00952990.2017.1355919	*Methamphetamine; *Cocaine; *Neurocognition; *Neuropsychology	"Background: Previous meta-analytical research examining cocaine and methamphetamine separately suggests potentially different neuropsychological profiles associated with each drug. In addition, neuroimaging studies point to distinct structural changes that might underlie differences in neuropsychological functioning. Objectives: This meta-analysis compared the effect sizes identified in cocaine versus methamphetamine studies across 15 neuropsychological domains. Method: Investigators searched and coded the literature examining the neuropsychological deficits associated with a history of either cocaine or methamphetamine use. A total of 54 cocaine and 41 methamphetamine studies were selected, yielding sample sizes of 1,718 and 1,297, respectively. Moderator analyses were conducted to compare the two drugs across each cognitive domain. Results: Data revealed significant differences between the two drugs. Specifically, studies of cocaine showed significantly larger effect-size estimates (i.e., poorer performance) in verbal working memory when compared to methamphetamine. Further, when compared to cocaine, methamphetamine studies demonstrated significantly larger effect sizes in delayed contextual verbal memory and delayed visual memory. Conclusion: Overall, cocaine and methamphetamine users share similar neuropsychological profiles. However, cocaine appears to be more associated with working memory impairments, which are typically frontally mediated, while methamphetamine appears to be more associated with memory impairments that are linked with temporal and parietal lobe dysfunction. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	393	0	0	0	0	0	5	0	0	3	1	0	1	0	0	2	3	2	2	2	5
Sequential exploration in the Iowa gambling task: Validation of a new computational model in a large dataset of young and old healthy participants.	2019	PLoS Computational Biology	1553734X	15	6	18-Jan	"Ligneul, Romain"		"the iowa gambling task (igt) is one of the most common paradigms used to assess decision-making and executive functioning in neurological and psychiatric disorders. several reinforcement-learning (rl) models were recently proposed to refine the qualitative and quantitative inferences that can be made about these processes based on igt data. yet, these models do not account for the complex exploratory patterns which characterize participants behavior in the task. using a dataset of more than 500 subjects, we demonstrate the existence of sequential exploration in the igt and we describe a new computational architecture disentangling exploitation, random exploration and sequential exploration in this large population of participants. the new value plus sequential exploration (vse) architecture provided a better fit than previous models. parameter recovery, model recovery and simulation analyses confirmed the superiority of the vse scheme. furthermore, using the vse model, we confirmed the existence of a significant reduction in directed exploration across lifespan in the igt, as previously reported with other paradigms. finally, we provide a user-friendly toolbox enabling researchers to easily and flexibly fit computational models on the igt data, hence promoting reanalysis of the numerous datasets acquired in various populations of patients and contributing to the development of computational psychiatry."	10.1371/journal.pcbi.1006989	Psychology; Cognition; Behavior; Decision making; Learning; Gambling; Addiction; Simulation and modeling; Aging; Free energy; Learning and memory; Social sciences; Cognitive science; Neuroscience; COMPULSIVE behavior; Physiology; Behavioral addiction; EXECUTIVE function; MENTAL illness; COGNITIVE science; GAMBLING; Biology and life sciences; Medicine and health sciences; Physical sciences; Physics; Research and analysis methods; Research Article; Thermodynamics; Cognitive psychology; Developmental biology; NEUROLOGICAL disorders; Organism development; Physiological processes; Recreation	"The Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) is one of the most common paradigms used to assess decision-making and executive functioning in neurological and psychiatric disorders. Several reinforcement-learning (RL) models were recently proposed to refine the qualitative and quantitative inferences that can be made about these processes based on IGT data. Yet, these models do not account for the complex exploratory patterns which characterize participants behavior in the task. Using a dataset of more than 500 subjects, we demonstrate the existence of sequential exploration in the IGT and we describe a new computational architecture disentangling exploitation, random exploration and sequential exploration in this large population of participants. The new Value plus Sequential Exploration (VSE) architecture provided a better fit than previous models. Parameter recovery, model recovery and simulation analyses confirmed the superiority of the VSE scheme. Furthermore, using the VSE model, we confirmed the existence of a significant reduction in directed exploration across lifespan in the IGT, as previously reported with other paradigms. Finally, we provide a user-friendly toolbox enabling researchers to easily and flexibly fit computational models on the IGT data, hence promoting reanalysis of the numerous datasets acquired in various populations of patients and contributing to the development of computational psychiatry. [ABSTRACT FROM AUTHOR]"	1970	1	2	1	3	3	1	2	0	2	2	2	2	3	3	3	2	3	3	0	0
Pharmacological and Expectancy Effects of a Low Amount of Alcohol Drinking on Outcome Valuation and Risk Perception in Males and Females.	2016	PLoS ONE	19326203	11	4	13-Jan	"Tsurugizawa, Tomokazu; Tokuda, Shinsuke; Harada, Tokiko; Takahashi, Taiki; Sadato, Norihiro"		"the high-dose, alcohol-induced influences on risk perception and loss aversion depend on sex. on the other hand, low-dose alcohol has less effect on risky behavior. however, the effect of low-dose alcohol on subjective valuation of gain or loss and also the effect of placebo (expectancy of alcohol) on risk perception have not been fully investigated. we investigated the effects of low-dose alcohol (0.02 g/100 ml blood alcohol concentration) and placebo effects on subjective risk perception and subjective valuation of uncertain gain and loss in females and males. participants in the control group and the placebo group were served alcohol-free, wine-flavored beverage and participants of alcohol group were served wine (14% alcohol). the placebo group was not informed that the drink was not alcohol but the control group was informed. then paperpencil tasks for subjective risk perception and valuation of gain or loss were performed 45 min after drinking the beverage. the participants were asked to draw the line on a 180 mm scale for each question. the placebo effects as well as the low-dose alcohol effects were observed in subjective valuations of gain or loss. except for effect of beverages, a gender difference was also observed for subjective likelihood. the females estimated a low-probability loss as more likely and estimated a high-probability gain as less likely than did the males. from the stevens law fitting analysis, the placebo, not alcohol, significantly induced the psychophysical effect of the subjective valuation of gain or loss. these results indicate that the psychological effects of expectancy of alcohol (placebo) could be a major factor in changing the subjective valuation of gain or loss over the pharmacological effects of a small amount of alcohol (like a glass of wine). furthermore, these results also indicate that gender differences should be taken into account when investigating pharmacological or psychological effect on decision-making."	10.1371/journal.pone.0154083	Psychology; Cognition; Decision making; Emotions; Analysis of variance; Alcohol consumption; Social sciences; Economics; Cognitive science; Statistical methods; Neuroscience; Sensory perception; LOSS aversion; Happiness; Diet; Nutrition; RISK-taking behavior; EXPECTATION (Psychology); RISK perception; ALCOHOL drinking; Biology and life sciences; Mathematical and statistical techniques; Mathematics; Medicine and health sciences; Physical sciences; Research and analysis methods; Research Article; Statistics (mathematics); PHARMACOLOGY; Alcoholic beverages; Beverages; Economic agents; Psychophysics; Wine	"The high-dose, alcohol-induced influences on risk perception and loss aversion depend on sex. On the other hand, low-dose alcohol has less effect on risky behavior. However, the effect of low-dose alcohol on subjective valuation of gain or loss and also the effect of placebo (expectancy of alcohol) on risk perception have not been fully investigated. We investigated the effects of low-dose alcohol (0.02 g/100 ml blood alcohol concentration) and placebo effects on subjective risk perception and subjective valuation of uncertain gain and loss in females and males. Participants in the control group and the placebo group were served alcohol-free, wine-flavored beverage and participants of alcohol group were served wine (14% alcohol). The placebo group was not informed that the drink was not alcohol but the control group was informed. Then paperpencil tasks for subjective risk perception and valuation of gain or loss were performed 45 min after drinking the beverage. The participants were asked to draw the line on a 180 mm scale for each question. The placebo effects as well as the low-dose alcohol effects were observed in subjective valuations of gain or loss. Except for effect of beverages, a gender difference was also observed for subjective likelihood. The females estimated a low-probability loss as more likely and estimated a high-probability gain as less likely than did the males. From the Stevens law fitting analysis, the placebo, not alcohol, significantly induced the psychophysical effect of the subjective valuation of gain or loss. These results indicate that the psychological effects of expectancy of alcohol (placebo) could be a major factor in changing the subjective valuation of gain or loss over the pharmacological effects of a small amount of alcohol (like a glass of wine). Furthermore, these results also indicate that gender differences should be taken into account when investigating pharmacological or psychological effect on decision-making. [ABSTRACT FROM AUTHOR]"	2083	0	0	0	0	4	4	0	0	3	0	3	3	1	1	0	3	1	0	1	6
Cognitive Models for Evaluating Basic Decision Processes in Clinical Populations.	2007	Advances in clinical cognitive science: Formal modeling of processes and symptoms.	1-59147-784-0 (Hardcover); 978-1-59147-784-6 (Hardcover)		"Anderson, J. R. (1991). The place of cognitive architectures in a rational analysis. In K. Van Len (Ed.), Architectures for intelligence (pp. 1-24). Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum. 1991-98707-001."	81-111	"Yechiam, Eldad; Veinott, Elizabeth S; Busemeyer, Jerome R; Stout, Julie C"	English	"in this chapter, we demonstrate the use of computational models for the understanding of underlying processes in complex clinical assessment tasks, such as the iowa gambling task. first, we describe the iowa gambling task as an example of a complex behavioral task that is used in clinical assessment. next, we present the quantitative model used to identify basic processes that lead to poor task performance. because different cognitive models rely on different assumptions about the basic components, we describe and compare three alternative models. after that, we review three methods for model comparison (prediction, simulation, and bootstrapping) and discuss the advantages and disadvantages of the the chapter closes with a review of the applications of the present approach for analyzing the iowa gambling task. in previous work on this topic, busemeyer and stout (2002) tested three very different models for this task and fit the models to the empirical data. this chapter complements busemeyer and stout's work by analyzing three different variants of the best-fitting model from their article, providing a more detailed description of the modeling procedures for those interested in learning how to use computational models to study underlying processes and by applying this approach to the study of two disparate populations that show similar overt behavior on the iowa gambling task: (a) patients with huntington's disease and (b) cocaine abusers."	10.1037/11556-003	Cocaine; Drug Abuse; Huntingtons Disease; *Decision Making; *Mental Disorders; *Cognitive Processes; *Mathematical Modeling; Prediction; *Models; Cognitive Assessment	"In this chapter, we demonstrate the use of computational models for the understanding of underlying processes in complex clinical assessment tasks, such as the Iowa gambling task. First, we describe the Iowa gambling task as an example of a complex behavioral task that is used in clinical assessment. Next, we present the quantitative model used to identify basic processes that lead to poor task performance. Because different cognitive models rely on different assumptions about the basic components, we describe and compare three alternative models. After that, we review three methods for model comparison (prediction, simulation, and bootstrapping) and discuss the advantages and disadvantages of the methods. The chapter closes with a review of the applications of the present approach for analyzing the Iowa gambling task. In previous work on this topic, Busemeyer and Stout (2002) tested three very different models for this task and fit the models to the empirical data. This chapter complements Busemeyer and Stout's work by analyzing three different variants of the best-fitting model from their article, providing a more detailed description of the modeling procedures for those interested in learning how to use computational models to study underlying processes and by applying this approach to the study of two disparate populations that show similar overt behavior on the Iowa gambling task: (a) patients with Huntington's disease and (b) cocaine abusers. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	898	1	2	1	3	3	1	2	0	2	2	2	2	3	3	3	2	3	3	0	0
Using cognitive models to map relations between neuropsychological disorders and human decision-making deficits	2005	PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	0956-7976	16	12	973-978	"Yechiam, E; Busemeyer, JR; Stout, JC; Bechara, A"	English	"findings from a complex decision-making task (the iowa gambling task) show that individuals with neuropsychological disorders are characterized by decision-making deficits that lead to maladaptive risk-taking behavior. this article describes a cognitive model that distills performance in this task into three different underlying psychological components: the relative impact of rewards and punishments on evaluations of options, the rate that the contingent payoffs are learned, and the consistency between learning and responding. findings from 10 studies are organized by distilling the observed decision deficits into the three basic components and locating the neuropsychological disorders in this component space. the results reveal a cluster of populations characterized by making risky choices despite high attention to losses, perhaps because of difficulties in creating emotive representations. these findings demonstrate the potential contribution of cognitive models in building bridges between neuroscience and behavior."	10.1111/j.1467-9280.2005.01646.x	ABUSERS; GAMES; HUNTINGTONS-DISEASE; PERFORMANCE; PERSONALITY; RISK; VENTROMEDIAL PREFRONTAL CORTEX	"Findings from a complex decision-making task (the Iowa gambling task) show that individuals with neuropsychological disorders are characterized by decision-making deficits that lead to maladaptive risk-taking behavior. This article describes a cognitive model that distills performance in this task into three different underlying psychological components: the relative impact of rewards and punishments on evaluations of options, the rate that the contingent payoffs are learned, and the consistency between learning and responding. Findings from 10 studies are organized by distilling the observed decision deficits into the three basic components and locating the neuropsychological disorders in this component space. The results reveal a cluster of populations characterized by making risky choices despite high attention to losses, perhaps because of difficulties in creating emotive representations. These findings demonstrate the potential contribution of cognitive models in building bridges between neuroscience and behavior."	7	0	0	0	0	0	3	0	0	3	1	0	1	0	0	1	1	2	2	3	3
Risk behavior in opioid-dependent individuals after the administration of a therapeutic dose of methadone.	2014	The American Journal on Addictions	1055-0496	23	6	608-612	"Gorzelanczyk, Edward Jacek; Fareed, Ayman; Walecki, Piotr; Feit, Julia; Kunc, Marek"	English	"evidence suggests that methadone may play a protective role in the faulty decision-making in heroin-addicted individuals. this may reduce craving for opioids and the risky decisions associated with active opioid use. we tested the effect of a daily therapeutic dose of methadone on faulty decision-making in eighty (n = 80) individuals with a history of opioid addiction. we used the iowa gambling task (igt) and compared the score and response time before and after the daily methadone dosing. the mean net igt score before methadone dose was 10 (+/- 22) and 22 (+/- 23) after methadone dose (t = 4.23, p = .00006). these results reflect statistically significant improvement in faulty decisions after the administration of the daily methadone dose. the mean response time for the reward cards before methadone dose were 1,856 ms (+/- 871) and 1,465 ms (+/- 851) after methadone dose (t = 2.55, p = .012). the mean response time for the punishment cards before methadone dose were 1,688 ms (+/- 911) and 1,399 ms (+/- 827) after methadone dose (t = 1.86, p = .065). these results reflect statistically significant improvement in response time to a rewarding healthy decisions after the administration of the daily methadone dose. conclusions and scientific significance: this is the first study to report the effect of a therapeutic dose of methadone on improving faulty decisions for individuals with a long history of opioids addiction. this study demonstrated that the time to making a healthy decision was significantly shorter as a result of administration of methadone."	10.1111/j.1521-0391.2014.12154.x	Decision Making; Risk Taking; Heroin; *Drug Dosages; *Opiates; *Drug Dependency; Drug Addiction; *Therapeutic Processes; Harm Reduction; Methadone	"Background and Objectives: Evidence suggests that methadone may play a protective role in the faulty decision-making in heroin-addicted individuals. This may reduce craving for opioids and the risky decisions associated with active opioid use. Methods: We tested the effect of a daily therapeutic dose of methadone on faulty decision-making in eighty (n = 80) individuals with a history of opioid addiction. We used the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) and compared the score and response time before and after the daily methadone dosing. Results: The mean net IGT score before methadone dose was 10 (+/- 22) and 22 (+/- 23) after methadone dose (t = 4.23, p = .00006). These results reflect statistically significant improvement in faulty decisions after the administration of the daily methadone dose. The mean response time for the reward cards before methadone dose were 1,856 ms (+/- 871) and 1,465 ms (+/- 851) after methadone dose (t = 2.55, p = .012). The mean response time for the punishment cards before methadone dose were 1,688 ms (+/- 911) and 1,399 ms (+/- 827) after methadone dose (t = 1.86, p = .065). These results reflect statistically significant improvement in response time to a rewarding healthy decisions after the administration of the daily methadone dose. Conclusions and Scientific Significance: This is the first study to report the effect of a therapeutic dose of methadone on improving faulty decisions for individuals with a long history of opioids addiction. This study demonstrated that the time to making a healthy decision was significantly shorter as a result of administration of methadone. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	625	0	0	0	0	0	5	0	0	3	1	0	1	0	0	2	1	2	2	2	3
Decision making and impulsivity in young adult cannabis users.	2021	Frontiers in Psychology		12	"Agosti, V., Nunes, E., & Levin, F. (2002). Rates of psychiatric comorbidity among U.S. residents with lifetime cannabis dependence. Am. J. Drug Alcohol. Abuse 28, 643-652 https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/12492261 https://dx.doi.org/10.1081/ADA-120015873 2002-11287-007."		"O'Donnell, Brian F; Skosnik, Patrick D; Hetrick, William P; Fridberg, Daniel J"	English	"chronic cannabis users show impairments on laboratory measures of decision making which reflect risk factors for initiation and continued use of cannabis. however, the differential sensitivity of these tasks to cannabis use has not been established. moreover, studies to date have often lacked assessment of psychiatric histories and use of other illicit substances, both of which may influence decision making outcomes. the current study aimed to address these limitations by (1) including multiple types of decision making tasks, (2) implementing the probabilistic reversal learning task, a measure of decision making under uncertainty, for the first time in cannabis users, (3) including young adult cannabis users with no other psychiatric disorders, and (4) conducting urinalysis to exclude users of other illicit drugs. thirty-three current cannabis users without comorbid psychiatric disorders and 35 cannabis non-users completed behavioral measures of decision-making (iowa gambling task), reward discounting (delay discounting task), choice-outcome learning (the probabilistic reversal learning task) and a questionnaire assessment of impulsivity (barratt impulsiveness scale). relative to non-users, cannabis users demonstrated greater preference for immediate vs. delayed rewards on the delay discounting task, made fewer advantageous decisions on the iowa gambling task, and endorsed greater impulsivity on the barratt impulsiveness scale scales. cannabis users and non-users showed comparable performance on the probabilistic reversal learning task. frequency of past-month cannabis use and total years of use did not predict decision making or impulsivity. young adult cannabis users demonstrated higher discounting rates and impairments in learning cost-benefit contingencies, while reversal learning was unaffected. self-reported impulsivity was elevated as well. none of these measures correlated with current or lifetime estimates of cannabis use, arguing against a dose-relationship. interventions that target improvement in affected components of decision making may be helpful in reducing cannabis use and relapse."	10.3389/fpsyg.2021.679904	*Cannabis; *Decision Making; *Reversal Shift Learning; *Impulsiveness; *Delay Discounting; *Drug Usage	"Aims: Chronic cannabis users show impairments on laboratory measures of decision making which reflect risk factors for initiation and continued use of cannabis. However, the differential sensitivity of these tasks to cannabis use has not been established. Moreover, studies to date have often lacked assessment of psychiatric histories and use of other illicit substances, both of which may influence decision making outcomes. The current study aimed to address these limitations by (1) including multiple types of decision making tasks, (2) implementing the Probabilistic Reversal Learning Task, a measure of decision making under uncertainty, for the first time in cannabis users, (3) including young adult cannabis users with no other psychiatric disorders, and (4) conducting urinalysis to exclude users of other illicit drugs. Methods: Thirty-three current cannabis users without comorbid psychiatric disorders and 35 cannabis non-users completed behavioral measures of decision-making (Iowa Gambling Task), reward discounting (Delay Discounting Task), choice-outcome learning (the Probabilistic Reversal Learning Task) and a questionnaire assessment of impulsivity (Barratt Impulsiveness Scale). Results: Relative to non-users, cannabis users demonstrated greater preference for immediate vs. delayed rewards on the Delay Discounting Task, made fewer advantageous decisions on the Iowa Gambling Task, and endorsed greater impulsivity on the Barratt Impulsiveness Scale scales. Cannabis users and non-users showed comparable performance on the Probabilistic Reversal Learning Task. Frequency of past-month cannabis use and total years of use did not predict decision making or impulsivity. Conclusions: Young adult cannabis users demonstrated higher discounting rates and impairments in learning cost-benefit contingencies, while reversal learning was unaffected. Self-reported impulsivity was elevated as well. None of these measures correlated with current or lifetime estimates of cannabis use, arguing against a dose-relationship. Interventions that target improvement in affected components of decision making may be helpful in reducing cannabis use and relapse. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2023 APA, all rights reserved)"	125	0	1	2	2	2	2	1	1	0	3	1	0	2	2	5	4	5	5	8	2
Moderate alcohol consumption as risk factor for adverse brain outcomes and cognitive decline: longitudinal cohort study.	2017	BMJ: British Medical Journal	0959-8138	357	2015-2020 Dietary Guidelines for Americans. 8th ed. 2015. https://health.gov/dietaryguidelines/2015/guidelines/		"Topiwala, Anya; Allan, Charlotte L; Valkanova, Vyara; Zsoldos, Eniko; Filippini, Nicola; Sexton, Claire; Mahmood, Abda; Fooks, Peggy; Singh-Manoux, Archana; Mackay, Clare E; Kivimaki, Mika; Ebmeier, Klaus P"	English	"to investigate whether moderate alcohol consumption has a favourable or adverse association or no association with brain structure and function. design: observational cohort study with weekly alcohol intake and cognitive performance measured repeatedly over 30 years (1985-2015). multimodal magnetic resonance imaging (mri) was performed at study endpoint (2012-15). setting: community dwelling adults enrolled in the whitehall ii cohort based in the uk (the whitehall ii imaging substudy). participants: 550 men and women with mean age 43.0 (sd 5.4) at study baseline, none were ""alcohol dependent"" according to the cage screening questionnaire, and all safe to undergo mri of the brain at follow-up. twenty three were excluded because of incomplete or poor quality imaging data or gross structural abnormality (such as a brain cyst) or incomplete alcohol use, sociodemographic, health, or cognitive data. main outcom e measures: structural brain measures included hippocampal atrophy, grey matter density, and white matter microstructure. functional measures included cognitive decline over the study and cross sectional cognitive performance at the time of scanning. higher alcohol consumption over the 30 year follow-up was associated with increased odds of hippocampal atrophy in a dose dependent fashion. while those consuming over 30 units a week were at the highest risk compared with abstainers (odds ratio 5.8, 95% confidence interval 1.8 to 18.6; p <= 0.001), even those drinking moderately (14-21 units/week) had three times the odds of right sided hippocampal atrophy (3.4, 1.4 to 8.1; p = 0.007). there was no protective effect of light drinking (1-<7 units/week) over abstinence. higher alcohol use was also associated with differences in corpus callosum microstructure and faster decline in lexical fluency. no association was found with cross sectional cognitive performance or longitudinal changes in semantic fluency or word recall. alcohol consumption, even at moderate levels, is associated with adverse brain outcomes including hippocampal atrophy. these results support the recent reduction in alcohol guidance in the uk and question the current limits recommended in the us."	10.1136/bmj.j2353	*Risk Factors; *Cognitive Impairment; *Brain; *Magnetic Resonance Imaging; *Alcohol Use	"Objectives: To investigate whether moderate alcohol consumption has a favourable or adverse association or no association with brain structure and function. Design: Observational cohort study with weekly alcohol intake and cognitive performance measured repeatedly over 30 years (1985-2015). Multimodal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed at study endpoint (2012-15). Setting: Community dwelling adults enrolled in the Whitehall II cohort based in the UK (the Whitehall II imaging substudy). Participants: 550 men and women with mean age 43.0 (SD 5.4) at study baseline, none were ""alcohol dependent"" according to the CAGE screening questionnaire, and all safe to undergo MRI of the brain at follow-up. Twenty three were excluded because of incomplete or poor quality imaging data or gross structural abnormality (such as a brain cyst) or incomplete alcohol use, sociodemographic, health, or cognitive data. Main outcom e measures: Structural brain measures included hippocampal atrophy, grey matter density, and white matter microstructure. Functional measures included cognitive decline over the study and cross sectional cognitive performance at the time of scanning. Results: Higher alcohol consumption over the 30 year follow-up was associated with increased odds of hippocampal atrophy in a dose dependent fashion. While those consuming over 30 units a week were at the highest risk compared with abstainers (odds ratio 5.8, 95% confidence interval 1.8 to 18.6; P <= 0.001), even those drinking moderately (14-21 units/week) had three times the odds of right sided hippocampal atrophy (3.4, 1.4 to 8.1; P = 0.007). There was no protective effect of light drinking (1-<7 units/week) over abstinence. Higher alcohol use was also associated with differences in corpus callosum microstructure and faster decline in lexical fluency. No association was found with cross sectional cognitive performance or longitudinal changes in semantic fluency or word recall. Conclusions: Alcohol consumption, even at moderate levels, is associated with adverse brain outcomes including hippocampal atrophy. These results support the recent reduction in alcohol guidance in the UK and question the current limits recommended in the US. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2023 APA, all rights reserved)"	406	0	0	0	0	4	4	0	0	3	0	3	3	1	1	0	3	1	0	1	6
A computational knowledge-based model for emulating human performance in the Iowa Gambling Task.	2012	Neural Networks	0893-6080	33	"Ahn, W.Y., Busemeyer, J.R., Wagenmakers, E.J., & Stout, J.C. (2008). Comparison of decision learning models using the generalization criterion method. Cognitive Science, 32, 1376-1402. https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/21585458 https://dx.doi.org/10.1080/03640210802352992 2009-11607-007."	168-180	"Iglesias, A; del Castillo, M. D; Serrano, J. I; Oliva, J"	English	"a new computational knowledge-based model for emulating human performance in decision making tasks is proposed. this model is mainly based on the knowledge acquired through past experience, the knowledge extracted from the environment and the relationships between the concepts that represent these two kinds of knowledge. the proposed model divides the decision making process into two phases. the first phase lies in the estimation of the decision outcomes using a net of concepts. in the second phase, the proposed model uses a value function to score each possible alternative. the design of the model focuses on some psychological and neurophysiological evidence from current research. in order to validate the model, it is compared with other widely used models that implement different theories of decision making under risk and uncertainty. the model comparison is centered on a well defined task, the iowa gambling task, used in several psychological experiments. the comparison applies an evaluation method based on the optimization of each model in order to emulate human performance individually starting both the participant and the model from the same environmentally available information. the results show that the performance of the proposed model is quantitatively better than the other compared models. besides, using relevant concepts extracted from interviews with the participants increases the performance of the proposed model."	10.1016/j.neunet.2012.05.008	*Decision Making; *Computational Modeling; *Models; *Connectionism	"A new computational knowledge-based model for emulating human performance in decision making tasks is proposed. This model is mainly based on the knowledge acquired through past experience, the knowledge extracted from the environment and the relationships between the concepts that represent these two kinds of knowledge. The proposed model divides the decision making process into two phases. The first phase lies in the estimation of the decision outcomes using a net of concepts. In the second phase, the proposed model uses a value function to score each possible alternative. The design of the model focuses on some psychological and neurophysiological evidence from current research. In order to validate the model, it is compared with other widely used models that implement different theories of decision making under risk and uncertainty. The model comparison is centered on a well defined task, the Iowa Gambling Task, used in several psychological experiments. The comparison applies an evaluation method based on the optimization of each model in order to emulate human performance individually starting both the participant and the model from the same environmentally available information. The results show that the performance of the proposed model is quantitatively better than the other compared models. Besides, using relevant concepts extracted from interviews with the participants increases the performance of the proposed model. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2022 APA, all rights reserved)"	715	1	2	1	3	3	1	2	0	2	2	2	2	3	3	3	2	3	3	0	0
Smokers' decision making: More than mere risk taking.	2013	PLoS ONE		8	7		"Ert, Eyal; Yechiam, Eldad; Arshavsky, Olga"	English	"the fact that smoking is bad for people's health has become common knowledge, yet a substantial amount of people still smoke. previous studies that sought to better understand this phenomenon have found that smoking is associated with the tendency to take risk in other areas of life as well. the current paper explores factors that may underlie this tendency. an experimental analysis shows that smokers are more easily tempted by immediate high rewards compared to nonsmokers. thus the salience of risky alternatives that produce large rewards most of the time can direct smokers to make bad choices even in an abstract situation such as the iowa gambling task. these findings suggest that the risk taking behavior associated with smoking is not related to the mere pursuit of rewards but rather reflects a tendency to yield to immediate temptation."	10.1371/journal.pone.0068064	Rewards; Experimentation; Choice Behavior; *Decision Making; *Risk Taking; *Tobacco Smoking	"The fact that smoking is bad for people's health has become common knowledge, yet a substantial amount of people still smoke. Previous studies that sought to better understand this phenomenon have found that smoking is associated with the tendency to take risk in other areas of life as well. The current paper explores factors that may underlie this tendency. An experimental analysis shows that smokers are more easily tempted by immediate high rewards compared to nonsmokers. Thus the salience of risky alternatives that produce large rewards most of the time can direct smokers to make bad choices even in an abstract situation such as the Iowa Gambling Task. These findings suggest that the risk taking behavior associated with smoking is not related to the mere pursuit of rewards but rather reflects a tendency to yield to immediate temptation. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	688	0	1	0	0	4	4	0	0	1	0	3	3	0	0	2	0	4	1	1	7
Impulsive decision-making predicts the course of substance-related and addictive disorders.	2020	Psychopharmacology	0033-3158	237	9	2709-2724	"Kraplin, Anja; Hofler, Michael; Pooseh, Shakoor; Wolff, Max; Kronke, Klaus-Martin; Goschke, Thomas; Buhringer, Gerhard; Smolka, Michael N"	English	"this study investigated whether patterns of impulsive decision-making (i) differ between individuals with dsm-5 substance use disorders (sud) or non-substance-related addictive disorders (nd) and healthy controls, and (ii) predict the increase of sud and nd severity after one year. in a prospective-longitudinal community study, 338 individuals (19-27 years, 59% female) were included in one of three groups: sud (n = 100), nd (n = 118), or healthy controls (n = 120). group differences in four impulsive decision-making facets were analyzed with the bayesian priors: delay discounting (mean = 0.37, variance = 0.02), probability discounting for gains and for losses (each-0.16, 0.02), and loss aversion (- 0.44, 0.02). sud and nd severity were assessed at baseline and after 1 year (n = 312, 92%). predictive associations between decision-making and sud/nd severity changes were analyzed with the bayesian prior: mean = 0.25, variance = 0.016. compared with controls, the sud group displayed steeper delay discounting and lower probability discounting for losses; the nd group displayed lower probability discounting for losses (posterior probabilities > 98%). sud symptom increase after 1 year was predicted by steeper delay discounting and lower loss aversion; nd symptom increase by lower probability discounting for losses and lower loss aversion (posterior probabilities > 98%). there was low evidence for predictive relations between decision-making and the quantity-frequency of addictive behaviours. impulsive decision-making characterizes sud and nd and predicts the course of sud and nd symptoms but not the engagement in addictive behaviours. strength of evidence differed between different facets of impulsive decision-making and was mostly weaker than a priori expected."	10.1007/s00213-020-05567-z	Delay Discounting; *Decision Making; *Probability; *Substance Use Disorder; Impulsiveness; Prediction; *Aversion; *Addiction	"Background: This study investigated whether patterns of impulsive decision-making (i) differ between individuals with DSM-5 substance use disorders (SUD) or non-substance-related addictive disorders (ND) and healthy controls, and (ii) predict the increase of SUD and ND severity after one year. Methods: In a prospective-longitudinal community study, 338 individuals (19-27 years, 59% female) were included in one of three groups: SUD (n = 100), ND (n = 118), or healthy controls (n = 120). Group differences in four impulsive decision-making facets were analyzed with the Bayesian priors: delay discounting (mean = 0.37, variance = 0.02), probability discounting for gains and for losses (each-0.16, 0.02), and loss aversion (- 0.44, 0.02). SUD and ND severity were assessed at baseline and after 1 year (n = 312, 92%). Predictive associations between decision-making and SUD/ND severity changes were analyzed with the Bayesian prior: mean = 0.25, variance = 0.016. Results: Compared with controls, the SUD group displayed steeper delay discounting and lower probability discounting for losses; the ND group displayed lower probability discounting for losses (posterior probabilities > 98%). SUD symptom increase after 1 year was predicted by steeper delay discounting and lower loss aversion; ND symptom increase by lower probability discounting for losses and lower loss aversion (posterior probabilities > 98%). There was low evidence for predictive relations between decision-making and the quantity-frequency of addictive behaviours. Discussion: Impulsive decision-making characterizes SUD and ND and predicts the course of SUD and ND symptoms but not the engagement in addictive behaviours. Strength of evidence differed between different facets of impulsive decision-making and was mostly weaker than a priori expected. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	262	0	1	0	0	4	4	0	0	1	0	3	3	1	1	0	0	4	1	1	7
Propensity for risk taking and trait impulsivity in the Iowa gambling task.	2011	Personality and Individual Differences	0191-8869	50	4	492-495	"Upton, Daniel J; Bishara, Anthony J; Ahn, Woo-Young; Stout, Julie C"	English	"the iowa gambling task (igt) is sensitive to decision-making impairments in several clinical groups with frontal impairment. however the complexity of the igt, particularly in terms of its learning requirements, makes it difficult to know whether disadvantageous (risky) selections in this task reflect deliberate risk taking or a failure to recognise risk. to determine whether propensity for risk taking contributes to igt performance, we correlated igt selections with a measure of propensity for risk taking from the balloon analogue risk task (bart), taking into account potential moderating effects of igt learning requirements, and trait impulsivity, which is associated with learning difficulties. we found that igt and bart performance were related, but only in the later stages of the igt, and only in participants with low trait impulsivity. this finding suggests that igt performance may reflect different underlying processes in individuals with low and high trait impulsivity. in individuals with low trait impulsivity, it appears that risky selections in the igt reflect in part, propensity for risk seeking, but only after the development of explicit knowledge of igt risks after a period of learning."	10.1016/j.paid.2010.11.013	Gambling; *Impulsiveness; *Risk Taking; *Test Reliability; *Psychometrics; *Test Validity	"The Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) is sensitive to decision-making impairments in several clinical groups with frontal impairment. However the complexity of the IGT, particularly in terms of its learning requirements, makes it difficult to know whether disadvantageous (risky) selections in this task reflect deliberate risk taking or a failure to recognise risk. To determine whether propensity for risk taking contributes to IGT performance, we correlated IGT selections with a measure of propensity for risk taking from the Balloon Analogue Risk Task (BART), taking into account potential moderating effects of IGT learning requirements, and trait impulsivity, which is associated with learning difficulties. We found that IGT and BART performance were related, but only in the later stages of the IGT, and only in participants with low trait impulsivity. This finding suggests that IGT performance may reflect different underlying processes in individuals with low and high trait impulsivity. In individuals with low trait impulsivity, it appears that risky selections in the IGT reflect in part, propensity for risk seeking, but only after the development of explicit knowledge of IGT risks after a period of learning. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	785	0	1	2	2	2	2	0	0	1	0	3	3	1	1	0	0	4	1	8	7
Individual differences in computational psychiatry: A review of current challenges.	2023	Neurosci Biobehav Rev	0149-7634	148	"oa7, 7806090"	105137	" diaconescu, andreea;  diaconescu, andreea o;  paulus, martin;  paulus, martin p; karvelis, povilas"		": bringing precision to the understanding and treatment of mental disorders requires instruments for studying clinically relevant individual differences. one promising approach is the development of computational assays: integrating computational models with cognitive tasks to infer latent patient-specific disease processes in brain computations. while recent years have seen many methodological advancements in computational modelling and many cross-sectional patient studies, much less attention has been paid to basic psychometric properties (reliability and construct validity) of the computational measures provided by the assays. in this review, we assess the extent of this issue by examining emerging empirical evidence. we find that many computational measures suffer from poor psychometric properties, which poses a risk of invalidating previous findings and undermining ongoing research efforts using computational assays to study individual (and even group) differences. we provide recommendations for how to address these problems and, crucially, embed them within a broader perspective on key developments that are needed for translating computational assays to clinical practice., highlights:, emerging evidence shows many computational measures to have poor psychometric properties., this poses a risk of undermining the use of these measures for studying mental disorders., this is largely a consequence of over-relying on cross-sectional single-task study designs., to move forward, the field needs to embrace longitudinal designs with batteries of tasks., * the development of assays should be guided by a long-term vision of their applications.,"	10.1016/j.neubiorev.2023.105137	 *brain;  *individual differences;  *psychiatry;  computational modelling;  computational psychiatry;  reliability;  validity; *computational modeling; individual differences	": Bringing precision to the understanding and treatment of mental disorders requires instruments for studying clinically relevant individual differences. One promising approach is the development of computational assays: integrating computational models with cognitive tasks to infer latent patient-specific disease processes in brain computations. While recent years have seen many methodological advancements in computational modelling and many cross-sectional patient studies, much less attention has been paid to basic psychometric properties (reliability and construct validity) of the computational measures provided by the assays. In this review, we assess the extent of this issue by examining emerging empirical evidence. We find that many computational measures suffer from poor psychometric properties, which poses a risk of invalidating previous findings and undermining ongoing research efforts using computational assays to study individual (and even group) differences. We provide recommendations for how to address these problems and, crucially, embed them within a broader perspective on key developments that are needed for translating computational assays to clinical practice., Highlights:, * Emerging evidence shows many computational measures to have poor psychometric properties., * This poses a risk of undermining the use of these measures for studying mental disorders., * This is largely a consequence of over-relying on cross-sectional single-task study designs., * To move forward, the field needs to embrace longitudinal designs with batteries of tasks., * The development of assays should be guided by a long-term vision of their applications., (C) 2023Elsevier, Inc."	2909	0	0	0	0	0	3	0	0	3	0	3	3	0	0	2	1	2	2	3	3
Decomposing conditioned avoidance performance with computational models.	2020	Behaviour Research and Therapy	0005-7967	133	"Ahn, W.Y., Busemeyer, J.R., & Wagenmakers, E.J. (2008). Comparison of decision learning models using the generalization criterion method. Cognitive Science, 32(8), 1376-1402. http://doi.org/10.1080/03640210802352992 https://dx.doi.org/10.1080/03640210802352992 2009-11607-007."		"Krypotos, Angelos-Miltiadis; Crombez, Geert; Meulders, Ann; Claes, Nathalie; Vlaeyen, Johan W. S"	English	"avoidance towards innocuous stimuli is a key characteristic across anxiety-related disorders and chronic pain. insights into the relevant learning processes of avoidance are often gained via laboratory procedures, where individuals learn to avoid stimuli or movements that have been previously associated with an aversive stimulus. typically, statistical analyses of data gathered with conditioned avoidance procedures include frequency data, for example, the number of times a participant has avoided an aversive stimulus. here, we argue that further insights into the underlying processes of avoidance behavior could be unraveled using computational models of behavior. we then demonstrate how computational models could be used by reanalysing a previously published avoidance data set and interpreting the key findings. we conclude our article by listing some challenges in the direct application of computational modeling to avoidance data sets."	10.1016/j.brat.2020.103712	*Learning; *Computational Modeling; *Chronic Pain; Avoidance; *Aversive Stimulation; *Avoidance Conditioning; Pain	"Avoidance towards innocuous stimuli is a key characteristic across anxiety-related disorders and chronic pain. Insights into the relevant learning processes of avoidance are often gained via laboratory procedures, where individuals learn to avoid stimuli or movements that have been previously associated with an aversive stimulus. Typically, statistical analyses of data gathered with conditioned avoidance procedures include frequency data, for example, the number of times a participant has avoided an aversive stimulus. Here, we argue that further insights into the underlying processes of avoidance behavior could be unraveled using computational models of behavior. We then demonstrate how computational models could be used by reanalysing a previously published avoidance data set and interpreting the key findings. We conclude our article by listing some challenges in the direct application of computational modeling to avoidance data sets. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	258	0	0	0	0	0	6	0	0	3	1	0	1	0	0	1	1	2	2	6	3
A simplified model of choice behavior under uncertainty.	2016	Frontiers in Psychology		7	"Ahn, W. Y., Busemeyer, J. R., Wagenmakers, E.-J., & Stout, J. C. (2008). Comparison of decision learning models using the generalization criterion method. Cogn. Sci. 32, 1376-1402 2009-11607-007. https://dx.doi.org/10.1080/03640210802352992 https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/21585458"		"Lin, Ching-Hung; Lin, Yu-Kai; Song, Tzu-Jiun; Huang, Jong-Tsun; Chiu, Yao-Chu"	English	"the iowa gambling task (igt) has been standardized as a clinical assessment tool (bechara, 2007). nonetheless, numerous research groups have attempted to modify igt models to optimize parameters for predicting the choice behavior of normal controls and patients. a decade ago, most researchers considered the expected utility (eu) model (busemeyer and stout, 2002) to be the optimal model for predicting choice behavior under uncertainty. however, in recent years, studies have demonstrated that models with the prospect utility (pu) function are more effective than the eu models in the igt (ahn et al., 2008). nevertheless, after some preliminary tests based on our behavioral dataset and modeling, it was determined that the ahn et al. (2008) pu model is not optimal due to some incompatible this study aims to modify the ahn et al. (2008) pu model to a simplified model and used the igt performance of 145 subjects as the benchmark data for comparison. in our simplified pu model, the best goodness-of-fit was found mostly as the value of alpha approached zero. more specifically, we retested the key parameters alpha, lambda, and a in the pu model. notably, the influence of the parameters alpha, lambda, and a has a hierarchical power structure in terms of manipulating the goodness-of-fit in the pu model. additionally, we found that the parameters lambda and a may be ineffective when the parameter alpha is close to zero in the pu model. the present simplified model demonstrated that decision makers mostly adopted the strategy of gain-stay loss-shift rather than foreseeing the long-term outcome. however, there are other behavioral variables that are not well revealed under these dynamic-uncertainty situations. therefore, the optimal behavioral models may not have been found yet. in short, the best model for predicting choice behavior under dynamic-uncertainty situations should be further evaluated."	10.3389/fpsyg.2016.01201	Psychological Assessment; *Choice Behavior; *Uncertainty; *Utility Theory	"The Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) has been standardized as a clinical assessment tool (Bechara, 2007). Nonetheless, numerous research groups have attempted to modify IGT models to optimize parameters for predicting the choice behavior of normal controls and patients. A decade ago, most researchers considered the expected utility (EU) model (Busemeyer and Stout, 2002) to be the optimal model for predicting choice behavior under uncertainty. However, in recent years, studies have demonstrated that models with the prospect utility (PU) function are more effective than the EU models in the IGT (Ahn et al., 2008). Nevertheless, after some preliminary tests based on our behavioral dataset and modeling, it was determined that the Ahn et al. (2008) PU model is not optimal due to some incompatible results. This study aims to modify the Ahn et al. (2008) PU model to a simplified model and used the IGT performance of 145 subjects as the benchmark data for comparison. In our simplified PU model, the best goodness-of-fit was found mostly as the value of alpha approached zero. More specifically, we retested the key parameters alpha, lambda, and A in the PU model. Notably, the influence of the parameters alpha, lambda, and A has a hierarchical power structure in terms of manipulating the goodness-of-fit in the PU model. Additionally, we found that the parameters lambda and A may be ineffective when the parameter alpha is close to zero in the PU model. The present simplified model demonstrated that decision makers mostly adopted the strategy of gain-stay loss-shift rather than foreseeing the long-term outcome. However, there are other behavioral variables that are not well revealed under these dynamic-uncertainty situations. Therefore, the optimal behavioral models may not have been found yet. In short, the best model for predicting choice behavior under dynamic-uncertainty situations should be further evaluated. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	473	1	2	1	3	3	1	2	0	2	2	2	2	3	3	3	2	3	3	0	0
The drift diffusion model as the choice rule in reinforcement learning.	2017	Psychonomic Bulletin & Review	1069-9384	24	4	1234-1251	"Pedersen, Mads Lund; Frank, Michael J; Biele, Guido"	English	"current reinforcement-learning models often assume simplified decision processes that do not fully reflect the dynamic complexities of choice processes. conversely, sequential-sampling models of decision making account for both choice accuracy and response time, but assume that decisions are based on static decision values. to combine these two computational models of decision making and learning, we implemented reinforcement-learning models in which the drift diffusion model describes the choice process, thereby capturing both within- and across-trial dynamics. to exemplify the utility of this approach, we quantitatively fit data from a common reinforcement-learning paradigm using hierarchical bayesian parameter estimation, and compared model variants to determine whether they could capture the effects of stimulant medication in adult patients with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (adhd). the model with the best relative fit provided a good description of the learning process, choices, and response times. a parameter recovery experiment showed that the hierarchical bayesian modeling approach enabled accurate estimation of the model parameters. the model approach described here, using simultaneous estimation of reinforcement-learning and drift diffusion model parameters, shows promise for revealing new insights into the cognitive and neural mechanisms of learning and decision making, as well as the alteration of such processes in clinical groups."	10.3758/s13423-016-1199-y	*Decision Making; *Learning; *Statistical Probability; *Mathematical Modeling	"Current reinforcement-learning models often assume simplified decision processes that do not fully reflect the dynamic complexities of choice processes. Conversely, sequential-sampling models of decision making account for both choice accuracy and response time, but assume that decisions are based on static decision values. To combine these two computational models of decision making and learning, we implemented reinforcement-learning models in which the drift diffusion model describes the choice process, thereby capturing both within- and across-trial dynamics. To exemplify the utility of this approach, we quantitatively fit data from a common reinforcement-learning paradigm using hierarchical Bayesian parameter estimation, and compared model variants to determine whether they could capture the effects of stimulant medication in adult patients with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). The model with the best relative fit provided a good description of the learning process, choices, and response times. A parameter recovery experiment showed that the hierarchical Bayesian modeling approach enabled accurate estimation of the model parameters. The model approach described here, using simultaneous estimation of reinforcement-learning and drift diffusion model parameters, shows promise for revealing new insights into the cognitive and neural mechanisms of learning and decision making, as well as the alteration of such processes in clinical groups. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	454	1	2	1	3	3	1	2	0	2	2	2	2	3	3	3	2	3	3	0	0
An Acute Psychosocial Stressor Does Not Potentiate Alcohol Cue Reactivity in Non-Treatment-Seeking Alcoholics.	2011	"Alcohol., clin. exp. res."	0145-6008	35	3	464-473	"Thomas, Suzanne; Randall, Patrick; Brady, Kathleen; See, Ronald; Drobes, David"		"relapse risk factors, such as psychological stress and alcohol cues, are often encountered together. understanding how they interact has the potential to improve alcoholism treatments. this study was conducted to examine whether an acute psychosocial stressor enhanced alcohol cue reactivity in non-treatment-seeking alcoholics., seventy-nine alcohol-dependent individuals (39 women) randomly received either the trier social stress test or a no-stress control condition. stress reactivity was measured with serum adrenocorticotropic hormone and cortisol, mean arterial blood pressure, and subjective distress. immediately following the stress manipulation, participants held and sniffed a neutral cue then their preferred alcoholic beverage. cue reactivity was measured by 2 subjective measures of craving following each cue. additionally, general craving was assessed with the alcohol urge questionnaire at the beginning and end of the laboratory procedure., the stress manipulation showed internal validity on all measures of stress reactivity. there was not a main effect of stress nor a stress x cue interaction on either cue reactivity measure. as expected, there was a main effect of cue (alcohol > neutral cue) on both measures of cue reactivity. general craving increased during the challenge, but not differently by stress group. magnitude of stress reactivity was not associated with magnitude of cue reactivity, and all results were independent of gender., conclusion: in this well-controlled clinical laboratory study of non-treatment-seeking alcoholics, an acute psychological stressor did not make an alcohol cue a more potent urge-inducing stimulus, and stress had no effect on general alcohol craving.,"	10.1111/j.1530-0277.2010.01363.x	Alcohol; Stress; Gender; Craving; Cue Reactivity	"Background: Relapse risk factors, such as psychological stress and alcohol cues, are often encountered together. Understanding how they interact has the potential to improve alcoholism treatments. This study was conducted to examine whether an acute psychosocial stressor enhanced alcohol cue reactivity in non-treatment-seeking alcoholics., Methods: Seventy-nine alcohol-dependent individuals (39 women) randomly received either the Trier Social Stress Test or a no-stress control condition. Stress reactivity was measured with serum adrenocorticotropic hormone and cortisol, mean arterial blood pressure, and subjective distress. Immediately following the stress manipulation, participants held and sniffed a neutral cue then their preferred alcoholic beverage. Cue reactivity was measured by 2 subjective measures of craving following each cue. Additionally, general craving was assessed with the Alcohol Urge Questionnaire at the beginning and end of the laboratory procedure., Results: The stress manipulation showed internal validity on all measures of stress reactivity. There was not a main effect of stress nor a stress x cue interaction on either cue reactivity measure. As expected, there was a main effect of cue (alcohol > neutral cue) on both measures of cue reactivity. General craving increased during the challenge, but not differently by stress group. Magnitude of stress reactivity was not associated with magnitude of cue reactivity, and all results were independent of gender., Conclusion: In this well-controlled clinical laboratory study of non-treatment-seeking alcoholics, an acute psychological stressor did not make an alcohol cue a more potent urge-inducing stimulus, and stress had no effect on general alcohol craving., (C) 2011 Research Society on Alcoholism"	1504	0	0	0	1	1	0	0	0	3	1	0	5	0	0	2	1	2	2	5	1
Decomposing the roles of perseveration and expected value representation in models of the Iowa Gambling Task.	2013	Frontiers in Psychology		4	"Agay, N., Yechiam, E., Carmel, Z., & Levkovitz, Y. (2010). Nonspecific effects of methylphenidate (Ritalin) on cognitive ability and decision-making of ADHD and healthy adults. Psychopharmacology 210, 511-519 2010-12376-006. https://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s00213-010-1853-4 https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/20424828"		"Worthy, Darrell A; Pang, Bo; Byrne, Kaileigh A"	English	"models of human behavior in the iowa gambling task (igt) have played a pivotal role in accounting for behavioral differences during decision-making. one critical difference between models that have been used to account for behavior in the igt is the inclusion or exclusion of the assumption that participants tend to persevere, or stay with the same option over consecutive trials. models that allow for this assumption include win-stay-lose-shift (wsls) models and reinforcement learning (rl) models that include a decay learning rule where expected values for each option decay as they are chosen less often. one shortcoming of rl models that have included decay rules is that the tendency to persevere by sticking with the same option has been conflated with the tendency to select the option with the highest expected value because a single term is used to represent both of these tendencies. in the current work we isolate the tendencies to perseverate and to select the option with the highest expected value by including them as separate terms in a value-plus-perseveration (vpp) rl model. overall the vpp model provides a better fit to data from a large group of participants than models that include a single term to account for both perseveration and the representation of expected value. simulations of each model show that the vpp model's simulated choices most closely resemble the decision-making behavior of human subjects. in addition, we also find that parameter estimates of loss aversion are more strongly correlated with performance when perseverative tendencies and expected value representations are decomposed as separate terms within the model. the results suggest that the tendency to persevere and the tendency to select the option that leads to the best net payoff are central components of decision-making behavior in the igt. future work should use this model to better examine decision-making behavior."	10.3389/fpsyg.2013.00640	Models; Expectations; *Gambling; *Decision Making; *Perseveration	"Models of human behavior in the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) have played a pivotal role in accounting for behavioral differences during decision-making. One critical difference between models that have been used to account for behavior in the IGT is the inclusion or exclusion of the assumption that participants tend to persevere, or stay with the same option over consecutive trials. Models that allow for this assumption include win-stay-lose-shift (WSLS) models and reinforcement learning (RL) models that include a decay learning rule where expected values for each option decay as they are chosen less often. One shortcoming of RL models that have included decay rules is that the tendency to persevere by sticking with the same option has been conflated with the tendency to select the option with the highest expected value because a single term is used to represent both of these tendencies. In the current work we isolate the tendencies to perseverate and to select the option with the highest expected value by including them as separate terms in a Value-Plus-Perseveration (VPP) RL model. Overall the VPP model provides a better fit to data from a large group of participants than models that include a single term to account for both perseveration and the representation of expected value. Simulations of each model show that the VPP model's simulated choices most closely resemble the decision-making behavior of human subjects. In addition, we also find that parameter estimates of loss aversion are more strongly correlated with performance when perseverative tendencies and expected value representations are decomposed as separate terms within the model. The results suggest that the tendency to persevere and the tendency to select the option that leads to the best net payoff are central components of decision-making behavior in the IGT. Future work should use this model to better examine decision-making behavior. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	679	1	2	1	3	3	1	2	0	2	2	2	2	3	3	3	2	3	3	0	0
Construct validity of the Iowa Gambling Task.	2009	Neuropsychology Review	1040-7308	19	1	102-114	"Buelow, Melissa T; Suhr, Julie A"	English	"the iowa gambling task (igt) was created to assess real-world decision making in a laboratory setting and has been applied to various clinical populations (i.e., substance abuse, schizophrenia, pathological gamblers) outside those with orbitofrontal cortex damage, for whom it was originally developed. the current review provides a critical examination of lesion, functional neuroimaging, developmental, and clinical studies in order to examine the construct validity of the igt. the preponderance of evidence provides support for the use of the igt to detect decision making deficits in clinical populations, in the context of a more comprehensive evaluation. the review includes a discussion of three critical issues affecting the validity of the igt, as it has recently become available as a clinical instrument: the lack of a concise definition as to what aspect of decision making the igt measures, the lack of data regarding reliability of the igt, and the influence of personality and state mood on igt performance."	10.1007/s11065-009-9083-4	Lesions; Neuroimaging; *Decision Making; *Executive Function; *Test Reliability; *Psychological Assessment; *Test Validity; Construct Validity	"The Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) was created to assess real-world decision making in a laboratory setting and has been applied to various clinical populations (i.e., substance abuse, schizophrenia, pathological gamblers) outside those with orbitofrontal cortex damage, for whom it was originally developed. The current review provides a critical examination of lesion, functional neuroimaging, developmental, and clinical studies in order to examine the construct validity of the IGT. The preponderance of evidence provides support for the use of the IGT to detect decision making deficits in clinical populations, in the context of a more comprehensive evaluation. The review includes a discussion of three critical issues affecting the validity of the IGT, as it has recently become available as a clinical instrument: the lack of a concise definition as to what aspect of decision making the IGT measures, the lack of data regarding reliability of the IGT, and the influence of personality and state mood on IGT performance. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	849	0	0	0	0	0	5	0	0	3	1	0	1	0	0	1	5	2	2	2	3
Decision-making ability in current and past users of opiates: A meta-analysis.	2016	Neuroscience and Biobehavioral Reviews	0149-7634	71	"Ahn, W.-Y., Vasilev, G., Lee, S.-H., Busemeyer, J.R., Kruschke, J.K., Bechara, A., & Vassileva, J. (2014). Decision-making in stimulant and opiate addicts in protracted abstinence: evidence from computational modeling with pure users. Front. Psychol. 5, 849. https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/25161631 https://dx.doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2014.00849 2014-38854-001."	342-351	"Biernacki, Kathryn; McLennan, Skye N; Terrett, Gill; Labuschagne, Izelle; Rendell, Peter G"	English	"opiate use is associated with deficits in decision-making. however, the impact of abstinence and co-morbid factors, like head injury and poly-substance abuse, on this ability, is currently unclear. this meta-analysis aimed to assess 1) the magnitude of decision-making deficits in opiate users; 2) whether co-morbid factors moderate the severity of these deficits; 3) whether ex-opiate users demonstrate smaller decision-making deficits than current users; and 4) whether the length of abstinence is related to the magnitude of decision-making deficits. we analysed 22 studies that compared the performance of current and ex-opiate users to healthy controls on decision-making measures such as the iowa gambling task. current users demonstrated a moderately strong impairment in decision-making relative to controls, which was not significantly moderated by co-morbid factors. the magnitude of the impairment did not significantly differ between studies assessing current or ex-users, and this impairment was not related to length of abstinence. thus, it appears that opiate users have relatively severe decision-making deficits that persist at least 1.5 years after cessation of use."	10.1016/j.neubiorev.2016.09.011	*Decision Making; *Heroin; *Opiates; *Addiction	"Opiate use is associated with deficits in decision-making. However, the impact of abstinence and co-morbid factors, like head injury and poly-substance abuse, on this ability, is currently unclear. This meta-analysis aimed to assess 1) the magnitude of decision-making deficits in opiate users; 2) whether co-morbid factors moderate the severity of these deficits; 3) whether ex-opiate users demonstrate smaller decision-making deficits than current users; and 4) whether the length of abstinence is related to the magnitude of decision-making deficits. We analysed 22 studies that compared the performance of current and ex-opiate users to healthy controls on decision-making measures such as the Iowa Gambling Task. Current users demonstrated a moderately strong impairment in decision-making relative to controls, which was not significantly moderated by co-morbid factors. The magnitude of the impairment did not significantly differ between studies assessing current or ex-users, and this impairment was not related to length of abstinence. Thus, it appears that opiate users have relatively severe decision-making deficits that persist at least 1.5 years after cessation of use. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	463	0	0	0	0	0	5	0	0	3	1	0	1	0	0	2	1	2	2	2	3
Bayes factors for reinforcement-learning models of the Iowa gambling task.	2016	Decision	2325-9965	3	2	115-131	"Steingroever, Helen; Wetzels, Ruud; Wagenmakers, Eric-Jan"	English	"the psychological processes that underlie performance on the iowa gambling task (igt) are often isolated with the help of reinforcement-learning (rl) models. the most popular method to compare rl models is the bic post hoc fit criterion-a criterion that considers goodness-of-fit relative to model complexity. however, the current implementation of the bic post hoc fit criterion considers only 1 dimension of model complexity, that is, the number of free parameters. a more sophisticated implementation of the bic post hoc fit criterion, 1 that provides a coherent and complete discounting of complexity, is provided by the bayes factor. here we demonstrate an analysis in which bayes factors are obtained with a monte carlo method, known as importance sampling, to compare 4 rl models of the igt: the expectancy valence (ev), prospect valence learning (pvl), pvl-delta, and value-plus-perseveration (vpp) models. we illustrate the method using a data pool of 771 participants from 11 different studies. our results provide strong evidence for the vpp model and moderate evidence for the pvl model, but little evidence for the ev and pvl-delta models-results that were not in line with a bic post hoc fit analysis. we discuss how our results may be combined with results obtained from other model comparison studies to obtain a balanced and comprehensive assessment of model adequacy."	10.1037/dec0000040	Models; *Learning; *Reinforcement; *Statistical Probability; *Perseveration	"The psychological processes that underlie performance on the Iowa gambling task (IGT) are often isolated with the help of reinforcement-learning (RL) models. The most popular method to compare RL models is the BIC post hoc fit criterion-a criterion that considers goodness-of-fit relative to model complexity. However, the current implementation of the BIC post hoc fit criterion considers only 1 dimension of model complexity, that is, the number of free parameters. A more sophisticated implementation of the BIC post hoc fit criterion, 1 that provides a coherent and complete discounting of complexity, is provided by the Bayes factor. Here we demonstrate an analysis in which Bayes factors are obtained with a Monte Carlo method, known as importance sampling, to compare 4 RL models of the IGT: the Expectancy Valence (EV), Prospect Valence Learning (PVL), PVL-Delta, and Value-Plus-Perseveration (VPP) models. We illustrate the method using a data pool of 771 participants from 11 different studies. Our results provide strong evidence for the VPP model and moderate evidence for the PVL model, but little evidence for the EV and PVL-Delta models-results that were not in line with a BIC post hoc fit analysis. We discuss how our results may be combined with results obtained from other model comparison studies to obtain a balanced and comprehensive assessment of model adequacy. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	511	1	2	1	3	3	1	2	0	2	2	2	2	3	3	3	2	3	3	0	4
"Some futures for cognitive modeling and architectures: design patterns for including better interaction with the world, moderators, and improved model to data fits (and so can you)."	2020	Computational & Mathematical Organization Theory	1381298X	26	3	278-306	"Ritter, Frank E.; Tehranchi, Farnaz; Dancy, Christopher L.; Kase, Sue E."		"we note some future areas for work with cognitive models and agents that as colbert (i am america (and so can you!), 2007) notes, ""so can you"". we present three approaches as something like design patterns, so they can be applied to other architectures and tasks. these areas are: (a) interacting directly with the screen-as-world. it is now possible for models to interact with uninstrumented interfaces both on the machine that the model is running on as well as remote machines. improved interaction can not only support a broader range of behavior but also make the interaction more accurately model human behavior on tasks that include interaction. just one implication is that this will force models to have more knowledge about interaction, an area that has been little modeled but essential for all tasks. (b) providing the cognitive architecture with more representation of the body. in our example, we provide a physiological substrate to implement behavioral moderators' effects on cognition. cognitive architectures can now be broader in the measurements they predict and correspond to. this approach provides a more complete and theoretically appropriate way to include new aspects of behavior including stressor effects and emotions in models. and (c) using machine learning techniques, particularly genetic algorithms (gas), to fit models to data. because of the model complexity, this is equivalent to performing a multi-variable non-linear stochastic multiple-output regression. doing this by hand is completely inadequate. while there is a danger of overfitting using a ga, these fits can help provide a better understanding of the model and architecture, including how the architecture changes under moderators such stress. this paper also includes some notes on model maintenance and reporting."	10.1007/s10588-020-09308-7	Emotions; Human behavior models; ACT-R; America; Architectural design; Cognitive architecture; Data modeling; Genetic algorithm; Genetic algorithms; Interaction; Model fit; Model optimization; Moderators; Pattern matching; User models; Vision models	"We note some future areas for work with cognitive models and agents that as Colbert (I am America (and so can you!), 2007) notes, ""so can you"". We present three approaches as something like design patterns, so they can be applied to other architectures and tasks. These areas are: (a) Interacting directly with the screen-as-world. It is now possible for models to interact with uninstrumented interfaces both on the machine that the model is running on as well as remote machines. Improved interaction can not only support a broader range of behavior but also make the interaction more accurately model human behavior on tasks that include interaction. Just one implication is that this will force models to have more knowledge about interaction, an area that has been little modeled but essential for all tasks. (b) Providing the cognitive architecture with more representation of the body. In our example, we provide a physiological substrate to implement behavioral moderators' effects on cognition. Cognitive architectures can now be broader in the measurements they predict and correspond to. This approach provides a more complete and theoretically appropriate way to include new aspects of behavior including stressor effects and emotions in models. And (c) using machine learning techniques, particularly genetic algorithms (GAs), to fit models to data. Because of the model complexity, this is equivalent to performing a multi-variable non-linear stochastic multiple-output regression. Doing this by hand is completely inadequate. While there is a danger of overfitting using a GA, these fits can help provide a better understanding of the model and architecture, including how the architecture changes under moderators such stress. This paper also includes some notes on model maintenance and reporting. [ABSTRACT FROM AUTHOR]"	1927	1	2	1	3	3	1	2	0	2	2	2	2	3	3	3	2	3	3	0	0
Bayesian techniques for analyzing group differences in the Iowa Gambling Task: A case study of intuitive and deliberate decision-makers.	2018	Psychonomic Bulletin & Review	1069-9384	25	3	951-970	"Steingroever, Helen; Pachur, Thorsten; Smira, Martin; Lee, Michael D"	English	"the iowa gambling task (igt) is one of the most popular experimental paradigms for comparing complex decision-making across groups. most commonly, igt behavior is analyzed using frequentist tests to compare performance across groups, and to compare inferred parameters of cognitive models developed for the igt. here, we present a bayesian alternative based on bayesian repeated-measures anova for comparing performance, and a suite of three complementary model-based methods for assessing the cognitive processes underlying igt performance. the three model-based methods involve bayesian hierarchical parameter estimation, bayes factor model comparison, and bayesian latent-mixture modeling. we illustrate these bayesian methods by applying them to test the extent to which differences in intuitive versus deliberate decision style are associated with differences in igt performance. the results show that intuitive and deliberate decision-makers behave similarly on the igt, and the modeling analyses consistently suggest that both groups of decision-makers rely on similar cognitive processes. our results challenge the notion that individual differences in intuitive and deliberate decision styles have a broad impact on decision-making. they also highlight the advantages of bayesian methods, especially their ability to quantify evidence in favor of the null hypothesis, and that they allow model-based analyses to incorporate hierarchical and latent-mixture structures."	10.3758/s13423-017-1331-7	Gambling; *Decision Making; *Learning; *Test Reliability; *Psychometrics; *Test Validity; Mixture Modeling	"The Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) is one of the most popular experimental paradigms for comparing complex decision-making across groups. Most commonly, IGT behavior is analyzed using frequentist tests to compare performance across groups, and to compare inferred parameters of cognitive models developed for the IGT. Here, we present a Bayesian alternative based on Bayesian repeated-measures ANOVA for comparing performance, and a suite of three complementary model-based methods for assessing the cognitive processes underlying IGT performance. The three model-based methods involve Bayesian hierarchical parameter estimation, Bayes factor model comparison, and Bayesian latent-mixture modeling. We illustrate these Bayesian methods by applying them to test the extent to which differences in intuitive versus deliberate decision style are associated with differences in IGT performance. The results show that intuitive and deliberate decision-makers behave similarly on the IGT, and the modeling analyses consistently suggest that both groups of decision-makers rely on similar cognitive processes. Our results challenge the notion that individual differences in intuitive and deliberate decision styles have a broad impact on decision-making. They also highlight the advantages of Bayesian methods, especially their ability to quantify evidence in favor of the null hypothesis, and that they allow model-based analyses to incorporate hierarchical and latent-mixture structures. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	402	1	2	1	3	3	1	2	0	2	2	2	2	3	3	3	2	3	3	0	0
The relative merit of empirical priors in non-identifiable and sloppy models: Applications to models of learning and decision-making: Empirical priors.	2018	Psychonomic Bulletin & Review	1069-9384	25	6	2047-2068	"Spektor, Mikhail S; Kellen, David"	English	"formal modeling approaches to cognition provide a principled characterization of observed responses in terms of a set of postulated processes, specifically in terms of parameters that modulate the latter. these model-based characterizations are useful to the extent that there is a clear, one-to-one mapping between parameters and model expectations (identifiability) and that parameters can be recovered from reasonably sized data using a typical experimental design (recoverability). these properties are sometimes not met for certain combinations of model classes and data. one suggestion to improve parameter identifiability and recoverability involves the use of ""empirical priors"", which constrain parameters according to a previously observed distribution of values. we assessed the efficacy of this proposal using a combination of real and artificial data. our results showed that a point-estimate variant of the empirical-prior method could not improve parameter recovery systematically. we identified the source of poor parameter recovery in the low information content of the data. as a follow-up step, we developed a fully bayesian variant of the empirical-prior method and assessed its performance. we find that even such a method that takes the covariance structure of the parameter distributions into account cannot reliably improve parameter recovery. we conclude that researchers should invest additional efforts in improving the informativeness of their experimental designs, as many of the problems associated to impoverished designs cannot be alleviated by modern statistical methods alone."	10.3758/s13423-018-1446-5	Models; *Decision Making; *Learning; *Reinforcement; Empirical Methods; *Experimental Design; *Prospect Theory; Experimental Methods; Statistical Measurement	"Formal modeling approaches to cognition provide a principled characterization of observed responses in terms of a set of postulated processes, specifically in terms of parameters that modulate the latter. These model-based characterizations are useful to the extent that there is a clear, one-to-one mapping between parameters and model expectations (identifiability) and that parameters can be recovered from reasonably sized data using a typical experimental design (recoverability). These properties are sometimes not met for certain combinations of model classes and data. One suggestion to improve parameter identifiability and recoverability involves the use of ""empirical priors"", which constrain parameters according to a previously observed distribution of values. We assessed the efficacy of this proposal using a combination of real and artificial data. Our results showed that a point-estimate variant of the empirical-prior method could not improve parameter recovery systematically. We identified the source of poor parameter recovery in the low information content of the data. As a follow-up step, we developed a fully Bayesian variant of the empirical-prior method and assessed its performance. We find that even such a method that takes the covariance structure of the parameter distributions into account cannot reliably improve parameter recovery. We conclude that researchers should invest additional efforts in improving the informativeness of their experimental designs, as many of the problems associated to impoverished designs cannot be alleviated by modern statistical methods alone. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	392	1	2	1	3	3	1	2	0	2	2	2	2	3	3	3	2	3	3	0	0
Strategy switching in a sequence of decisions: Evidence from the Iowa Gambling Task.	2023	Acta Psychologica Sinica	0439-755X	55	11	No-Specified	"Hu, Xinyun; Shen, Yue; Dai, Junyi"	Chinese	"much previous research has investigated strategies for various decision tasks with a sequence of trials. by assuming each individual adopted a single decision strategy across all trials and comparing corresponding computational cognitive models in terms of their performances in fitting empirical data, such research has revealed multiple decision strategies for various decision tasks. a common drawback of such research, however, was a neglect of the possibility that individuals switched their strategies during the relevant tasks. in study 1, we developed a computational cognitive model for the iowa gambling task (igt) allowing for one switch between a reinforcement learning strategy and a heuristic strategy (i.e., strategy-switch-once or sso model). the results of model comparison between the sso model and single-strategy models provided clear evidence that individuals might change their strategies along the sequence of decisions in the igt. study 2 showed further that a higher proportion of individual data from a 200-trial igt were fitted best by the sso model than was the case among individual data from the standard, 100-trial igt. these findings underscored the importance of considering potential strategy switching in a sequence of decision trials for a more proper understanding of decision strategies in various tasks, especially for a long sequence of decisions. for a deeper understanding of psychological mechanisms underlying sequences of decisions, future research might further investigate various forms of strategy switching such as gradual versus abrupt switches and task and individual factors that trigger such switches."	10.3724/sp.j.1041.2023.01793	*Decision Making; *Computational Modeling; *Computational Reinforcement Learning; *Heuristics	"Much previous research has investigated strategies for various decision tasks with a sequence of trials. By assuming each individual adopted a single decision strategy across all trials and comparing corresponding computational cognitive models in terms of their performances in fitting empirical data, such research has revealed multiple decision strategies for various decision tasks. A common drawback of such research, however, was a neglect of the possibility that individuals switched their strategies during the relevant tasks. In Study 1, we developed a computational cognitive model for the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) allowing for one switch between a reinforcement learning strategy and a heuristic strategy (i.e., strategy-switch-once or SSO model). The results of model comparison between the SSO model and single-strategy models provided clear evidence that individuals might change their strategies along the sequence of decisions in the IGT. Study 2 showed further that a higher proportion of individual data from a 200-trial IGT were fitted best by the SSO model than was the case among individual data from the standard, 100-trial IGT. These findings underscored the importance of considering potential strategy switching in a sequence of decision trials for a more proper understanding of decision strategies in various tasks, especially for a long sequence of decisions. For a deeper understanding of psychological mechanisms underlying sequences of decisions, future research might further investigate various forms of strategy switching such as gradual versus abrupt switches and task and individual factors that trigger such switches. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2024 APA, all rights reserved)"	81	0	0	0	0	0	6	0	0	3	1	0	1	0	0	1	1	2	2	6	3
Binge drinking affects brain oscillations linked to motor inhibition and execution.	2017	Journal of Psychopharmacology	0269-8811	31	7	873-882	"Lopez-Caneda, Eduardo; Rodriguez Holguin, Socorro; Correas, Angeles; Carbia, Carina; Gonzalez-Villar, Alberto; Maestu, Fernando; Cadaveira, Fernando"	English	"neurofunctional studies have shown that binge drinking patterns of alcohol consumption during adolescence and youth are associated with anomalies in brain functioning. recent evidence suggests that event-related oscillations may be an appropriate index of neurofunctional damage associated with alcoholism. however, there is no study to date that has evaluated the effects of binge drinking on oscillatory brain responses related to task performance. the purpose of the present study was to examine brain oscillations linked to motor inhibition and execution in young binge drinkers (bds) compared with age-matched controls. electroencephalographic activity was recorded from 64 electrodes while 72 university students (36 controls and 36 bds) performed a visual go/nogo task. event-related oscillations along with the go-p3 and nogo-p3 event-related potential components were analysed. while no significant differences between groups were observed regarding event-related potentials, event-related oscillation analysis showed that bds displayed a lower oscillatory response than controls in delta and theta frequency ranges during go and nogo conditions. findings are congruent with event-related oscillation studies showing reduced delta and/or theta oscillations in alcoholics during go/nogo tasks. thus, bds appear to show disruptions in neural oscillations linked to motor inhibition and execution similar to those observed in alcohol-dependent subjects. finally, these results are the first to evidence that oscillatory brain activity may be a sensitive indicator of underlying brain anomalies in young bds, which could complement standard event-related potential measures."	10.1177/0269881116689258	*Brain; *Binge Drinking; Response Inhibition; *Motor Processes; *Oscillatory Network	"Introduction: Neurofunctional studies have shown that binge drinking patterns of alcohol consumption during adolescence and youth are associated with anomalies in brain functioning. Recent evidence suggests that event-related oscillations may be an appropriate index of neurofunctional damage associated with alcoholism. However, there is no study to date that has evaluated the effects of binge drinking on oscillatory brain responses related to task performance. The purpose of the present study was to examine brain oscillations linked to motor inhibition and execution in young binge drinkers (BDs) compared with age-matched controls. Methods: Electroencephalographic activity was recorded from 64 electrodes while 72 university students (36 controls and 36 BDs) performed a visual Go/NoGo task. Event-related oscillations along with the Go-P3 and NoGo-P3 event-related potential components were analysed. Results: While no significant differences between groups were observed regarding event-related potentials, event-related oscillation analysis showed that BDs displayed a lower oscillatory response than controls in delta and theta frequency ranges during Go and NoGo conditions. Conclusions: Findings are congruent with event-related oscillation studies showing reduced delta and/or theta oscillations in alcoholics during Go/NoGo tasks. Thus, BDs appear to show disruptions in neural oscillations linked to motor inhibition and execution similar to those observed in alcohol-dependent subjects. Finally, these results are the first to evidence that oscillatory brain activity may be a sensitive indicator of underlying brain anomalies in young BDs, which could complement standard event-related potential measures. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	428	0	0	0	1	1	0	0	0	3	1	0	1	0	0	2	1	2	2	5	1
Experimental manipulation of working memory model parameters: An exercise in construct validity.	2013	Psychological Assessment	1040-3590	25	3	844-858	"Brown, Gregory G; Turner, Travis H; Mano, Quintino R; Bolden, Khalima; Thomas, Michael L"	English	"as parametric cognitive models become more commonly used to measure individual differences, the construct validity of the interpretation of individual model parameters needs to be well established. the validity of the interpretation of 2 parameters of a formal model of the continuous recognition memory test (crmt) was investigated in 2 experiments. the 1st study found that manipulating the percentage of trials on the crmt for which degraded pseudowords were presented altered the model's stimulus encoding parameter but not the working memory displacement parameter. the 2nd experiment showed that manipulating the number of syllables forming a pseudoword altered the model's working memory displacement parameter for each syllable added to the pseudoword. findings from both experiments supported the construct representation of the model parameters, supporting the construct validity of the model's use to interpret crmt performance. combining parametric models with the manipulation of factors that theory predicts are related to model parameters provides an approach to construct validation that bridges experimental and individual difference methods of studying human cognition."	10.1037/a0032577	Statistical Estimation; *Mathematical Modeling; *Short Term Memory; *Test Validity; *Construct Validity	"As parametric cognitive models become more commonly used to measure individual differences, the construct validity of the interpretation of individual model parameters needs to be well established. The validity of the interpretation of 2 parameters of a formal model of the Continuous Recognition Memory Test (CRMT) was investigated in 2 experiments. The 1st study found that manipulating the percentage of trials on the CRMT for which degraded pseudowords were presented altered the model's stimulus encoding parameter but not the working memory displacement parameter. The 2nd experiment showed that manipulating the number of syllables forming a pseudoword altered the model's working memory displacement parameter for each syllable added to the pseudoword. Findings from both experiments supported the construct representation of the model parameters, supporting the construct validity of the model's use to interpret CRMT performance. Combining parametric models with the manipulation of factors that theory predicts are related to model parameters provides an approach to construct validation that bridges experimental and individual difference methods of studying human cognition. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	691	1	2	1	3	3	1	2	0	2	2	2	2	3	3	3	2	3	3	0	0
Processing of continuously provided punishment and reward in children with ADHD and the modulating effects of stimulant medication: An ERP study.	2013	PLoS ONE		8	3		"Groen, Yvonne; Tucha, Oliver; Wijers, Albertus A; Althaus, Monika"	English	"current models of adhd suggest abnormal reward and punishment sensitivity, but the exact mechanisms are unclear. this study aims to investigate effects of continuous reward and punishment on the processing of performance feedback in children with adhd and the modulating effects of stimulant medication. 15 methylphenidate (mph)-treated and 15 mph-free children of the adhd-combined type and 17 control children performed a selective attention task with three feedback conditions: no-feedback, gain and loss. event related potentials (erps) time-locked to feedback and errors were computed. all groups performed more accurately with gain and loss than without feedback. feedback-related erps demonstrated no group differences in the feedback p2, but an enhanced late positive potential (lpp) to feedback stimuli (both gains and losses) for mph-free children with adhd compared to controls. feedback-related erps in mph-treated children with adhd were similar to controls. correlational analyses in the adhd groups revealed that the severity of inattention problems correlated negatively with the feedback p2 amplitude and positively with the lpp to losses and omitted gains. the early selective attention for rewarding and punishing feedback was relatively intact in children with adhd, but the late feedback processing was deviant (increased feedback lpp). this may explain the often observed positive effects of continuous reinforcement on performance and behaviour in children with adhd. however, these group findings cannot be generalised to all individuals with the adhd, because the feedback-related erps were associated with the severity of the inattention problems. children with adhd-combined type with more inattention problems showed both deviant early attentional selection of feedback stimuli, and deviant late processing of non-reward and punishment."	10.1371/journal.pone.0059240	*Rewards; *Drug Therapy; *Attention Deficit Disorder with Hyperactivity; *Punishment; Feedback; *Selective Attention; Methylphenidate	"Objectives: Current models of ADHD suggest abnormal reward and punishment sensitivity, but the exact mechanisms are unclear. This study aims to investigate effects of continuous reward and punishment on the processing of performance feedback in children with ADHD and the modulating effects of stimulant medication. Methods: 15 Methylphenidate (Mph)-treated and 15 Mph-free children of the ADHD-combined type and 17 control children performed a selective attention task with three feedback conditions: no-feedback, gain and loss. Event Related Potentials (ERPs) time-locked to feedback and errors were computed. Results: All groups performed more accurately with gain and loss than without feedback. Feedback-related ERPs demonstrated no group differences in the feedback P2, but an enhanced late positive potential (LPP) to feedback stimuli (both gains and losses) for Mph-free children with ADHD compared to controls. Feedback-related ERPs in Mph-treated children with ADHD were similar to controls. Correlational analyses in the ADHD groups revealed that the severity of inattention problems correlated negatively with the feedback P2 amplitude and positively with the LPP to losses and omitted gains. Conclusions: The early selective attention for rewarding and punishing feedback was relatively intact in children with ADHD, but the late feedback processing was deviant (increased feedback LPP). This may explain the often observed positive effects of continuous reinforcement on performance and behaviour in children with ADHD. However, these group findings cannot be generalised to all individuals with the ADHD, because the feedback-related ERPs were associated with the severity of the inattention problems. Children with ADHD-combined type with more inattention problems showed both deviant early attentional selection of feedback stimuli, and deviant late processing of non-reward and punishment. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2022 APA, all rights reserved)"	671	0	0	0	0	4	4	0	0	3	0	3	3	1	1	0	1	2	2	1	3
Evaluating generalizability and parameter consistency in learning models.	2008	Games and Economic Behavior	0899-8256	63	1	370-394	"Yechiam, Eldad; Busemeyer, Jerome R"	English	"a new evaluation method is proposed for comparing learning models used for predicting decisions based on experience. the method is based on the generalization of models' predictions at the individual level. first, it evaluates the ability to make a priori predictions for decisions in new tasks using parameters from different tasks performed by an individual decision-maker. second, it evaluates the consistency of parameters estimated in different tasks performed by the same person. we use this method to examine two rules for updating past experience with payoff feedback: the delta rule, where only the chosen option is updated; and a decay-reinforcement rule, where additionally, non-chosen options are discounted. the results reveal that although the decay-reinforcement rule fits the data better, it has poor generality and parameter consistency at the individual level. the current method thus improves the ability to select models based on their correspondence to consistent characteristics within individual decision-makers."	10.1016/j.geb.2007.08.011	*Decision Making; *Learning; *Reinforcement; *Feedback; *Cognitive Generalization	"A new evaluation method is proposed for comparing learning models used for predicting decisions based on experience. The method is based on the generalization of models' predictions at the individual level. First, it evaluates the ability to make a priori predictions for decisions in new tasks using parameters from different tasks performed by an individual decision-maker. Second, it evaluates the consistency of parameters estimated in different tasks performed by the same person. We use this method to examine two rules for updating past experience with payoff feedback: The Delta rule, where only the chosen option is updated; and a Decay-Reinforcement rule, where additionally, non-chosen options are discounted. The results reveal that although the Decay-Reinforcement rule fits the data better, it has poor generality and parameter consistency at the individual level. The current method thus improves the ability to select models based on their correspondence to consistent characteristics within individual decision-makers. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	872	1	2	1	3	3	1	2	0	2	2	2	2	3	3	3	2	3	3	0	0
A Contribution of Cognitive Decision Models to Clinical Assessment: Decomposing Performance on the Bechara Gambling Task.	2002	Psychol Assess	1040-3590	14	3	253-262	"Busemeyer, Jerome; Stout, Julie"		"the bechara simulated gambling task is a popular method of examining decision-making deficits exhibited by people with brain damage, psychopathology, antisocial personality, or drug abuse problems. however, performance on this task is confounded by complex interdependencies between cognitive, motivational, and response processes, making it difficult to sort out and identify the specific processes responsible for the observed behavioral deficits. the authors compare 3 competing cognitive decision models of the bechara task in terms of their ability to explain the performance deficits observed in huntington's disease patients as compared with healthy populations and people with parkinson's disease. the parameters of the best fitting model are used to decompose the observed performance deficit of the huntington patients into cognitive, motivational, and response sources.,"	10.1037/1040-3590.14.3.253		"The Bechara simulated gambling task is a popular method of examining decision-making deficits exhibited by people with brain damage, psychopathology, antisocial personality, or drug abuse problems. However, performance on this task is confounded by complex interdependencies between cognitive, motivational, and response processes, making it difficult to sort out and identify the specific processes responsible for the observed behavioral deficits. The authors compare 3 competing cognitive decision models of the Bechara task in terms of their ability to explain the performance deficits observed in Huntington's disease patients as compared with healthy populations and people with Parkinson's disease. The parameters of the best fitting model are used to decompose the observed performance deficit of the Huntington patients into cognitive, motivational, and response sources., (C) 2002 by the American Psychological Association"	1705	0	0	0	0	0	6	0	0	3	1	0	1	0	0	1	1	2	2	6	3
Neural circuits linking sleep and addiction: Animal models to understand why select individuals are more vulnerable to substance use disorders after sleep deprivation.	2020	Neurosci Biobehav Rev	0149-7634	108	"oa7, 7806090"	435-444	" ahmed, omar;  ahmed, omar j; ahrens, allison; ahrens, allison m"		"highlights:, there is individual variation in the effects of sleep loss on reward circuitry., this individual variation has been difficult to study in preclinical animal models., there exists a sign/goal tracker model of individual differences in cued motivation., there is overlapping circuitry responsible for both sleep and st/gt behavior., * st/gt model can be used to study individual variation in sleep-reward interactions., individuals differ widely in their drug-craving behaviors. one reason for these differences involves sleep. sleep disturbances lead to an increased risk of substance use disorders and relapse in only some individuals. while animal studies have examined the impact of sleep on reward circuitry, few have addressed the role of individual differences in the effects of altered sleep. there does, however, exist a rodent model of individual differences in reward-seeking behavior: the sign/goal-tracker model of pavlovian conditioned approach. in this model, only some rats show the key behavioral traits associated with addiction, including impulsivity and poor attentional control, making this an ideal model system to examine individually distinct sleep-reward interactions. here, we describe how the limbic neural circuits responsible for individual differences in incentive motivation overlap with those involved in sleep-wake regulation, and how this model can elucidate the common underlying mechanisms. consideration of individual differences in preclinical models would improve our understanding of how sleep interacts with motivational systems, and why sleep deprivation contributes to addiction in only select individuals.,"	10.1016/j.neubiorev.2019.11.007	 *animal models;  *individual differences;  *sleep;  *substance use disorder;  animal behavior;  goal-tracking;  incentive salience;  incentives;  reinforcement;  reward;  sign-tracking;  sleep;  sleep deprivation; *rewards; individual differences	"Highlights:, * There is individual variation in the effects of sleep loss on reward circuitry., * This individual variation has been difficult to study in preclinical animal models., * There exists a Sign/Goal Tracker model of individual differences in cued motivation., * There is overlapping circuitry responsible for both sleep and ST/GT behavior., * ST/GT model can be used to study individual variation in sleep-reward interactions., Individuals differ widely in their drug-craving behaviors. One reason for these differences involves sleep. Sleep disturbances lead to an increased risk of substance use disorders and relapse in only some individuals. While animal studies have examined the impact of sleep on reward circuitry, few have addressed the role of individual differences in the effects of altered sleep. There does, however, exist a rodent model of individual differences in reward-seeking behavior: the sign/goal-tracker model of Pavlovian conditioned approach. In this model, only some rats show the key behavioral traits associated with addiction, including impulsivity and poor attentional control, making this an ideal model system to examine individually distinct sleep-reward interactions. Here, we describe how the limbic neural circuits responsible for individual differences in incentive motivation overlap with those involved in sleep-wake regulation, and how this model can elucidate the common underlying mechanisms. Consideration of individual differences in preclinical models would improve our understanding of how sleep interacts with motivational systems, and why sleep deprivation contributes to addiction in only select individuals., (C) 2020Elsevier, Inc."	2914	0	1	2	2	2	2	0	0	1	0	4	4	1	1	0	0	4	1	4	1
How to Use a Multicriteria Comparison Procedure to Improve Modeling Competitions: A Comment on Erev et al. (2017)	2021	Psychol Rev	0033-295X	128	5	995-1005	"Harman, Jason; Yu, Michael; Konstantinidis, Emmanouil; Gonzalez, Cleotilde"		"modeling competitions are a promising method for advancing psychological science. in this commentary to erev et al. (psychological review, 2017, 124, p. 369), we highlight how this promise could be enhanced through modifying competition structures to produce insights more directly in line with the goals of promoting psychological knowledge. we argue that a single criterion on which models is compared limits the diversity of models entered into competitions, restricting the number and type of insights that can be gained consequently. we propose an alternative competition structure with multiple evaluative criteria and outline a quantitative selection method for choosing a winner. our proposed competition structure has the advantages of (a) increasing the diversity of models entered, (b) incentivizing desirable qualities of models, (c) disambiguating competition winners, and (d) enhancing the impact and possible insights gained from competitions, all these while allowing flexibility for competition organizers to emphasize specific qualities of models.,"	10.1037/rev0000274	cognitive modeling; choice prediction competition; modeling competitions; multicriteria competitions	"Modeling competitions are a promising method for advancing psychological science. In this commentary to Erev et al. (Psychological Review, 2017, 124, p. 369), we highlight how this promise could be enhanced through modifying competition structures to produce insights more directly in line with the goals of promoting psychological knowledge. We argue that a single criterion on which models is compared limits the diversity of models entered into competitions, restricting the number and type of insights that can be gained consequently. We propose an alternative competition structure with multiple evaluative criteria and outline a quantitative selection method for choosing a winner. Our proposed competition structure has the advantages of (a) increasing the diversity of models entered, (b) incentivizing desirable qualities of models, (c) disambiguating competition winners, and (d) enhancing the impact and possible insights gained from competitions, all these while allowing flexibility for competition organizers to emphasize specific qualities of models., (C) 2021 by the American Psychological Association"	1043	0	0	0	0	0	6	0	0	3	1	0	1	3	3	3	2	3	3	6	0
"Searching for the Best Cause: Roles of Mechanism Beliefs, Autocorrelation, and Exploitation."	2016	J Exp Psychol Learn Mem Cogn	0278-7393	42	8	1233-1256	"Rottman, BM"		"When testing which of multiple causes (e.g., medicines) works best, the testing sequence has important implications for the validity of the final judgment. Trying each cause for a period of time before switching to the other is important if the causes have tolerance, sensitization, delay, or carryover (TSDC) effects. In contrast, if the outcome variable is autocorrelated and gradually fluctuates over time rather than being random across time, it can be useful to quickly alternate between the 2 causes, otherwise the causes could be confounded with a secular trend in the outcome. Five experiments tested whether individuals modify their causal testing strategies based on beliefs about TSDC effects and autocorrelation in the outcome. Participants adaptively tested each cause for longer periods of time before switching when testing causal interventions for which TSDC effects were plausible relative to cases when TSDC effects were not plausible. When the autocorrelation in the baseline trend was manipulated, participants exhibited only a small (if any) tendency toward increasing the amount of alternation; however, they adapted to the autocorrelation by focusing on changes in outcomes rather than raw outcome scores, both when making choices about which cause to test as well as when making the final judgment of which cause worked best. Understanding how people test causal relations in diverse environments is an important first step for being able to predict when individuals will successfully choose effective causes in real-world settings"	10.1037/xlm0000244	causal reasoning; dynamic environments; information search; win-stay lose-switch	(C) 2016 by the American Psychological Association	1273	0	0	0	1	1	0	0	0	3	1	0	5	0	0	2	1	2	2	7	3
Analysis of evidence in decision-making research between 2002 and 2012.	2015	Analisis de evidencia en investigaciones sobre toma de decisiones entre 2002 y 2012.	1794-4724	33	1	105-120	"Arbelaez, Jorge Ivan Fernandez; Zapata, Johny Villada"	Spanish	"this article presents a systematic review of 66 studies on decision making from psychology issued from 2002 through 2012, either in english or spanish. these studies were classified according to the scottish intercollegiate guidelines network (sign)'s levels of evidence and degrees of recommendation. the research type, level, and design of every study were analyzed in detail, as well as the relationship between these factors and the levels of evidence in the studies involved. stronger evidence for quality in research on physiological correlates of decision variables was found, as well as a lower quality level in comparative studies on psychological decision-making models. the latter show a high level of theoretical divergence and a lack of research focused on consolidating a coherent theoretical framework."	10.12804/apl33.01.2015.08	Experimentation; *Decision Making; *Cognitive Processes; *Theories; *Judgment	"This article presents a systematic review of 66 studies on decision making from psychology issued from 2002 through 2012, either in English or Spanish. These studies were classified according to the Scottish Intercollegiate Guidelines Network (SIGN)'s levels of evidence and degrees of recommendation. The research type, level, and design of every study were analyzed in detail, as well as the relationship between these factors and the levels of evidence in the studies involved. Stronger evidence for quality in research on physiological correlates of decision variables was found, as well as a lower quality level in comparative studies on psychological decision-making models. The latter show a high level of theoretical divergence and a lack of research focused on consolidating a coherent theoretical framework. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	578	0	0	0	1	1	0	0	0	3	1	0	5	0	0	2	1	2	2	7	3
Systematic parameter reviews in cognitive modeling: Towards a robust and cumulative characterization of psychological processes in the diffusion decision model.	2021	Frontiers in Psychology		11	"Akaike, H. (1973). Information theory and an extension of maximum likelihood principle, in Proceedings of the Second International Symposium on Information Theory (New York, NY), 267-281."		"Tran, N. -Han; van Maanen, Leendert; Heathcote, Andrew; Matzke, Dora"	English	"parametric cognitive models are increasingly popular tools for analyzing data obtained from psychological experiments. one of the main goals of such models is to formalize psychological theories using parameters that represent distinct psychological processes. we argue that systematic quantitative reviews of parameter estimates can make an important contribution to robust and cumulative cognitive modeling. parameter reviews can benefit model development and model assessment by providing valuable information about the expected parameter space, and can facilitate the more efficient design of experiments. importantly, parameter reviews provide crucial-if not indispensable-information for the specification of informative prior distributions in bayesian cognitive modeling. from the bayesian perspective, prior distributions are an integral part of a model, reflecting cumulative theoretical knowledge about plausible values of the model's parameters (lee, 2018). in this paper we illustrate how systematic parameter reviews can be implemented to generate informed prior distributions for the diffusion decision model (ddm; ratcliff and mckoon, 2008), the most widely used model of speeded decision making. we surveyed the published literature on empirical applications of the ddm, extracted the reported parameter estimates, and synthesized this information in the form of prior distributions. our parameter review establishes a comprehensive reference resource for plausible ddm parameter values in various experimental paradigms that can guide future applications of the model. based on the challenges we faced during the parameter review, we formulate a set of general and ddm-specific suggestions aiming to increase reproducibility and the information gained from the review process."	10.3389/fpsyg.2020.608287	Psychodynamics; *Decision Making; *Cognitive Processes; *Models; *Cognitive Science; *Statistical Sample Parameters	"Parametric cognitive models are increasingly popular tools for analyzing data obtained from psychological experiments. One of the main goals of such models is to formalize psychological theories using parameters that represent distinct psychological processes. We argue that systematic quantitative reviews of parameter estimates can make an important contribution to robust and cumulative cognitive modeling. Parameter reviews can benefit model development and model assessment by providing valuable information about the expected parameter space, and can facilitate the more efficient design of experiments. Importantly, parameter reviews provide crucial-if not indispensable-information for the specification of informative prior distributions in Bayesian cognitive modeling. From the Bayesian perspective, prior distributions are an integral part of a model, reflecting cumulative theoretical knowledge about plausible values of the model's parameters (Lee, 2018). In this paper we illustrate how systematic parameter reviews can be implemented to generate informed prior distributions for the Diffusion Decision Model (DDM; Ratcliff and McKoon, 2008), the most widely used model of speeded decision making. We surveyed the published literature on empirical applications of the DDM, extracted the reported parameter estimates, and synthesized this information in the form of prior distributions. Our parameter review establishes a comprehensive reference resource for plausible DDM parameter values in various experimental paradigms that can guide future applications of the model. Based on the challenges we faced during the parameter review, we formulate a set of general and DDM-specific suggestions aiming to increase reproducibility and the information gained from the review process. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2022 APA, all rights reserved)"	194	1	2	1	3	3	1	2	0	2	2	2	2	3	3	3	2	3	3	0	0
Comparison of Decision Learning Models Using the Generalization Criterion Method.	2008	Cognitive Science	3640213	32	8	1376-1402	"Ahn, Woo-Young; Busemeyer, Jerome R.; Wagenmakers, Eric-Jan; Stout, Julie C."		"it is a hallmark of a good model to make accurate a priori predictions to new conditions (busemeyer & wang, 2000). this study compared 8 decision learning models with respect to their generalizability. participants performed 2 tasks (the iowa gambling task and the soochow gambling task), and each model made a priori predictions by estimating the parameters for each participant from 1 task and using those same parameters to predict on the other task. three methods were used to evaluate the models at the individual level of analysis. the first method used a post hoc fit criterion, the second method used a generalization criterion for short-term predictions, and the third method again used a generalization criterion for long-term predictions. the results suggest that the models with the prospect utility function can make generalizable predictions to new conditions, and different learning models are needed for making short-versus long-term predictions on simple gambling tasks."	10.1080/03640210802352992	Decision making; Reinforcement learning; Psychological tests; Criterion (Theory of knowledge); Gambling & psychology; Generalizability theory; Psychological techniques; Simulation methods & models; Stochastic learning models	"It is a hallmark of a good model to make accurate a priori predictions to new conditions (Busemeyer & Wang, 2000). This study compared 8 decision learning models with respect to their generalizability. Participants performed 2 tasks (the Iowa Gambling Task and the Soochow Gambling Task), and each model made a priori predictions by estimating the parameters for each participant from 1 task and using those same parameters to predict on the other task. Three methods were used to evaluate the models at the individual level of analysis. The first method used a post hoc fit criterion, the second method used a generalization criterion for short-term predictions, and the third method again used a generalization criterion for long-term predictions. The results suggest that the models with the prospect utility function can make generalizable predictions to new conditions, and different learning models are needed for making short-versus long-term predictions on simple gambling tasks. [ABSTRACT FROM AUTHOR]"	2288	1	2	1	3	3	1	2	0	2	2	2	2	3	3	3	2	3	3	0	0
Sex and HIV serostatus differences in decision making under risk among substance-dependent individuals.	2016	Journal of Clinical and Experimental Neuropsychology	1380-3395	38	4	404-415	"Martin, Eileen; Gonzalez, Raul; Vassileva, Jasmin; Maki, Pauline M; Bechara, Antoine; Brand, Matthias"	English	"hiv+ individuals with and without substance use disorders make significantly poorer decisions when information about the probability and magnitude of wins and losses is not available. we administered the game of dice task, a measure of decision making under risk that provides this information explicitly, to 92 hiv+ and 134 hiv- substance-dependent men and women. hiv+ participants made significantly poorer decisions than hiv- participants, but this deficit appeared more prominent among hiv+ women. these data indicate that decision making under risk is impaired among hiv+ substance-dependent individuals (sdis). potential factors for the hiv+ women's relatively greater impairment are discussed."	10.1080/13803395.2015.1119806	*Decision Making; *Substance Use Disorder; *HIV; *Human Sex Differences	"HIV+ individuals with and without substance use disorders make significantly poorer decisions when information about the probability and magnitude of wins and losses is not available. We administered the Game of Dice Task, a measure of decision making under risk that provides this information explicitly, to 92 HIV+ and 134 HIV- substance-dependent men and women. HIV+ participants made significantly poorer decisions than HIV- participants, but this deficit appeared more prominent among HIV+ women. These data indicate that decision making under risk is impaired among HIV+ substance-dependent individuals (SDIs). Potential factors for the HIV+ women's relatively greater impairment are discussed. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	498	0	0	0	0	0	5	0	0	3	1	0	1	0	0	2	1	4	1	2	3
The effects of alcohol on sequential decision-making biases during gambling.	2020	Psychopharmacology	333158	237	2	395-407	"Tobias-Webb, Juliette; Limbrick-Oldfield, Eve H.; Vearncombe, Silvia; Duka, Theodora; Clark, Luke"		"gambling and alcohol use are recreational behaviours that share substantial commonalities at a phenomenological, clinical and neurobiological level. past studies have shown that alcohol can have a disinhibiting effect on gambling behaviour, in terms of bet size and persistence. this study was conducted in order to characterise how alcohol affects biases in judgment and decision-making that occur during gambling, with a focus on sequential decision-making including the gambler's fallacy. sequential biases were elicited via a roulette-based gambling task. using a standard between-groups alcohol challenge procedure, male participants played the roulette task 20 min after receiving an alcoholic (0.8 g/kg; n = 22) or placebo (n = 16) beverage. the task measured colour choice decisions (red/black) and bet size, in response to varying lengths of colour runs and winning/losing feedback streaks. across both groups, a number of established sequential biases were observed. on colour choice, there was an effect of run length in line with the gambler's fallacy, which further varied by previous feedback (wins vs losses). bet size increased with feedback streaks, especially for losing streaks. compared to placebo, the alcohol group placed higher bets following losses compared to wins. increased bet size after losses following alcohol consumption may reflect increased loss chasing that may amplify gambling harms. our results do not fit a simple pattern of enhanced gambling distortions or reward sensitivity, but help contextualise the effects of alcohol on gambling to research on decision-making biases."	10.1007/s00213-019-05376-z	Gambling; Alcohol; ALCOHOL; ALCOHOL drinking; GAMBLING; ALCOHOLIC beverages; Cognitive distortions; Loss chasing; RESEARCH bias; Roulette	"Rationale: Gambling and alcohol use are recreational behaviours that share substantial commonalities at a phenomenological, clinical and neurobiological level. Past studies have shown that alcohol can have a disinhibiting effect on gambling behaviour, in terms of bet size and persistence. Objectives: This study was conducted in order to characterise how alcohol affects biases in judgment and decision-making that occur during gambling, with a focus on sequential decision-making including the gambler's fallacy. Methods: Sequential biases were elicited via a roulette-based gambling task. Using a standard between-groups alcohol challenge procedure, male participants played the roulette task 20 min after receiving an alcoholic (0.8 g/kg; n = 22) or placebo (n = 16) beverage. The task measured colour choice decisions (red/black) and bet size, in response to varying lengths of colour runs and winning/losing feedback streaks. Results: Across both groups, a number of established sequential biases were observed. On colour choice, there was an effect of run length in line with the gambler's fallacy, which further varied by previous feedback (wins vs losses). Bet size increased with feedback streaks, especially for losing streaks. Compared to placebo, the alcohol group placed higher bets following losses compared to wins. Conclusions: Increased bet size after losses following alcohol consumption may reflect increased loss chasing that may amplify gambling harms. Our results do not fit a simple pattern of enhanced gambling distortions or reward sensitivity, but help contextualise the effects of alcohol on gambling to research on decision-making biases. [ABSTRACT FROM AUTHOR]"	1942	0	0	0	0	0	5	0	0	3	1	0	1	0	0	2	3	1	0	2	6
On the importance of avoiding shortcuts in applying cognitive models to hierarchical data.	2018	Behavior Research Methods	1554-351X	50	4	1614-1631	"Boehm, Udo; Marsman, Maarten; Matzke, Dora; Wagenmakers, Eric-Jan"	English	"psychological experiments often yield data that are hierarchically structured. a number of popular shortcut strategies in cognitive modeling do not properly accommodate this structure and can result in biased to gauge the severity of these biases, we conducted a simulation study for a two-group experiment. we first considered a modeling strategy that ignores the hierarchical data structure. in line with theoretical results, our simulations showed that bayesian and frequentist methods that rely on this strategy are biased towards the null hypothesis. secondly, we considered a modeling strategy that takes a two-step approach by first obtaining participant-level estimates from a hierarchical cognitive model and subsequently using these estimates in a follow-up statistical test. methods that rely on this strategy are biased towards the alternative hypothesis. only hierarchical models of the multilevel data lead to correct our results are particularly relevant for the use of hierarchical bayesian parameter estimates in cognitive modeling."	10.3758/s13428-018-1054-3	*Cognition; *Mathematical Modeling; *Statistical Tests; Type I Errors	"Psychological experiments often yield data that are hierarchically structured. A number of popular shortcut strategies in cognitive modeling do not properly accommodate this structure and can result in biased conclusions. To gauge the severity of these biases, we conducted a simulation study for a two-group experiment. We first considered a modeling strategy that ignores the hierarchical data structure. In line with theoretical results, our simulations showed that Bayesian and frequentist methods that rely on this strategy are biased towards the null hypothesis. Secondly, we considered a modeling strategy that takes a two-step approach by first obtaining participant-level estimates from a hierarchical cognitive model and subsequently using these estimates in a follow-up statistical test. Methods that rely on this strategy are biased towards the alternative hypothesis. Only hierarchical models of the multilevel data lead to correct conclusions. Our results are particularly relevant for the use of hierarchical Bayesian parameter estimates in cognitive modeling. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	375	1	2	1	3	3	1	2	0	2	2	2	2	3	3	3	2	3	3	0	0
An afterword: The utility of cognitive models for the field of psychopathology.	2002	Psychological Assessment	1040-3590	14	3	304-310	"Maher, Brendan A"	English	"cognitive models of psychopathology provide opportunities and challenges for both the research psychopathologist and the clinician concerned with practical applications to individuals. heterogeneity of individual pathology within diagnostic categories, heterogeneity of content within symptom categories, undue reliance on judgment-based ratings, and frequent emphasis on deficit rather than the overt behavior of the patients are some of the major issues. others include the complex interaction between cognitive and affective processes and the fact that input-output functions are often nonlinear and marked by critical threshold values for the appearance of overt pathology. an important feature of models is the discipline that they introduce into theorizing about psychopathology plus the focus on precise quantification."	10.1037/1040-3590.14.3.304	Cognition; Models; *Cognitive Processes; *Psychopathology; Symptoms; Mental Disorders	"Cognitive models of psychopathology provide opportunities and challenges for both the research psychopathologist and the clinician concerned with practical applications to individuals. Heterogeneity of individual pathology within diagnostic categories, heterogeneity of content within symptom categories, undue reliance on judgment-based ratings, and frequent emphasis on deficit rather than the overt behavior of the patients are some of the major issues. Others include the complex interaction between cognitive and affective processes and the fact that input-output functions are often nonlinear and marked by critical threshold values for the appearance of overt pathology. An important feature of models is the discipline that they introduce into theorizing about psychopathology plus the focus on precise quantification. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	930	0	0	0	1	1	0	0	0	3	1	0	5	0	0	2	1	2	2	7	3
A cognitive modeling analysis of risk in sequential choice tasks.	2020	Judgment and Decision Making		15	5	823-850	"Guan, Maime; Stokes, Ryan; Vandekerckhove, Joachim; Lee, Michael D"	English	"there are many ways to measure how people manage risk when they make decisions. a standard approach is to measure risk propensity using self-report questionnaires. an alternative approach is to use decision-making tasks that involve risk and uncertainty, and apply cognitive models of task behavior to infer parameters that measure people's risk propensity. we report the results of a within-participants experiment that used three questionnaires and four decision-making tasks. the questionnaires are the risk propensity scale, the risk taking index, and the domain specific risk taking scale. the decision-making tasks are the balloon analogue risk task, the preferential choice gambling task, the optimal stopping problem, and the bandit problem. we analyze the relationships between the risk measures and cognitive parameters using bayesian inferences about the patterns of correlation, and using a novel cognitive latent variable modeling approach. the results show that people's risk propensity is generally consistent within different conditions for each of the decision-making tasks. there is, however, little evidence that the way people manage risk generalizes across the tasks, or that it corresponds to the questionnaire measures."	10.1017/S1930297500007956	Uncertainty; *Choice Behavior; *Decision Making; *Risk Taking; *Simulation; Statistical Probability; Statistical Variables	"There are many ways to measure how people manage risk when they make decisions. A standard approach is to measure risk propensity using self-report questionnaires. An alternative approach is to use decision-making tasks that involve risk and uncertainty, and apply cognitive models of task behavior to infer parameters that measure people's risk propensity. We report the results of a within-participants experiment that used three questionnaires and four decision-making tasks. The questionnaires are the Risk Propensity Scale, the Risk Taking Index, and the Domain Specific Risk Taking Scale. The decision-making tasks are the Balloon Analogue Risk Task, the preferential choice gambling task, the optimal stopping problem, and the bandit problem. We analyze the relationships between the risk measures and cognitive parameters using Bayesian inferences about the patterns of correlation, and using a novel cognitive latent variable modeling approach. The results show that people's risk propensity is generally consistent within different conditions for each of the decision-making tasks. There is, however, little evidence that the way people manage risk generalizes across the tasks, or that it corresponds to the questionnaire measures. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2023 APA, all rights reserved)"	231	0	1	0	0	4	4	0	0	1	0	3	3	1	1	0	0	4	1	1	7
Recollecting cross-cultural evidences: Are decision makers really foresighted in Iowa gambling task?	2020	Frontiers in Psychology		11	"Adida, M., Jollant, F., Clark, L., Besnier, N., Guillaume, S., & Kaladjian, A., et al(2011). Trait-related decision-making impairment in the three phases of bipolar disorder. Biol. Psychiatry70357-365 https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.biopsych.2011.01.018 2011-16727-016."		"Lee, We-Kang; Lin, Ching-Jen; Liu, Li-Hua; Lin, Ching-Hung; Chiu, Yao-Chu"	English	"the iowa gambling task (igt) has become a remarkable experimental paradigm of dynamic emotion decision making. in recent years, research has emphasized the ""prominent deck b (pdb) phenomenon"" among normal (control group) participants, in which they favor ""bad"" deck b with its high-frequency gain structure-a finding that is incongruent with the original igt hypothesis concerning foresightedness. some studies have attributed such performance inconsistencies to cultural differences. in the present review, 86 studies featuring data on individual deck selections were drawn from an initial sample of 958 igt-related studies published from 1994 to 2017 for further investigation. the pdb phenomenon was found in 67.44% of the studies (58 of 86), and most participants were recorded as having adopted the ""gain-stay loss-randomize"" strategy to cope with uncertainty. notably, participants in our sample of studies originated from 16 areas across north america, south america, europe, oceania, and asia, and the findings suggest that the pdb phenomenon may be cross-cultural."	10.3389/fpsyg.2020.537219	*Decision Making; *Uncertainty; *Cross Cultural Differences; *Experimentation	"The Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) has become a remarkable experimental paradigm of dynamic emotion decision making. In recent years, research has emphasized the ""prominent deck B (PDB) phenomenon"" among normal (control group) participants, in which they favor ""bad"" deck B with its high-frequency gain structure-a finding that is incongruent with the original IGT hypothesis concerning foresightedness. Some studies have attributed such performance inconsistencies to cultural differences. In the present review, 86 studies featuring data on individual deck selections were drawn from an initial sample of 958 IGT-related studies published from 1994 to 2017 for further investigation. The PDB phenomenon was found in 67.44% of the studies (58 of 86), and most participants were recorded as having adopted the ""gain-stay loss-randomize"" strategy to cope with uncertainty. Notably, participants in our sample of studies originated from 16 areas across North America, South America, Europe, Oceania, and Asia, and the findings suggest that the PDB phenomenon may be cross-cultural. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2022 APA, all rights reserved)"	246	0	0	0	0	0	5	0	0	3	1	0	1	0	0	1	5	0	4	2	8
Using Bayesian regression to test hypotheses about relationships between parameters and covariates in cognitive models.	2018	Behavior Research Methods	1554-351X	50	3	1248-1269	"Boehm, Udo; Steingroever, Helen; Wagenmakers, Eric-Jan"	English	"an important tool in the advancement of cognitive science are quantitative models that represent different cognitive variables in terms of model parameters. to evaluate such models, their parameters are typically tested for relationships with behavioral and physiological variables that are thought to reflect specific cognitive processes. however, many models do not come equipped with the statistical framework needed to relate model parameters to covariates. instead, researchers often revert to classifying participants into groups depending on their values on the covariates, and subsequently comparing the estimated model parameters between these groups. here we develop a comprehensive solution to the covariate problem in the form of a bayesian regression framework. our framework can be easily added to existing cognitive models and allows researchers to quantify the evidential support for relationships between covariates and model parameters using bayes factors. moreover, we present a simulation study that demonstrates the superiority of the bayesian regression framework to the conventional classification-based approach."	10.3758/s13428-017-0940-4	*Learning; Reinforcement; *Mathematical Modeling; *Logistic Regression	"An important tool in the advancement of cognitive science are quantitative models that represent different cognitive variables in terms of model parameters. To evaluate such models, their parameters are typically tested for relationships with behavioral and physiological variables that are thought to reflect specific cognitive processes. However, many models do not come equipped with the statistical framework needed to relate model parameters to covariates. Instead, researchers often revert to classifying participants into groups depending on their values on the covariates, and subsequently comparing the estimated model parameters between these groups. Here we develop a comprehensive solution to the covariate problem in the form of a Bayesian regression framework. Our framework can be easily added to existing cognitive models and allows researchers to quantify the evidential support for relationships between covariates and model parameters using Bayes factors. Moreover, we present a simulation study that demonstrates the superiority of the Bayesian regression framework to the conventional classification-based approach. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	382	1	2	1	3	3	1	2	0	2	2	2	2	3	3	3	2	3	3	0	0
"W=.2, a=.8, c=.6: So what? On the meaning of parameter estimates from reinforcement-learning models."	2015	Decision	2325-9965	2	3	228-235	"Steingroever, Helen; Wetzels, Ruud; Wagenmakers, Eric-Jan"	English	"in their comment on the article by steingroever, wetzels, and wagenmakers (2014), konstantinidis, speekenbrink, stout, ahn, and shanks (2014) convincingly argue why a wide range of sophisticated model comparison methods is required to select a good model for the iowa gambling task (igt). while we agree with konstantinidis et al. on this count, the focus of steingroever et al. was not on model comparison. here we clarify our initial goal, which is to illustrate why assessment of absolute model performance is necessary to avoid premature conclusions about the psychological processes that drive performance on the igt. in addition, we elaborate on the advantages and drawbacks of both the post hoc absolute fit method and the simulation method. finally, we highlight the distinction between statistical aspects of model adequacy and psychological relevance of parameter estimates."	10.1037/dec0000034	Mathematical Modeling; *Gambling; *Decision Making; *Learning; *Reinforcement	"In their comment on the article by Steingroever, Wetzels, and Wagenmakers (2014), Konstantinidis, Speekenbrink, Stout, Ahn, and Shanks (2014) convincingly argue why a wide range of sophisticated model comparison methods is required to select a good model for the Iowa gambling task (IGT). While we agree with Konstantinidis et al. on this count, the focus of Steingroever et al. was not on model comparison. Here we clarify our initial goal, which is to illustrate why assessment of absolute model performance is necessary to avoid premature conclusions about the psychological processes that drive performance on the IGT. In addition, we elaborate on the advantages and drawbacks of both the post hoc absolute fit method and the simulation method. Finally, we highlight the distinction between statistical aspects of model adequacy and psychological relevance of parameter estimates. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	580	1	2	1	3	3	1	2	0	2	2	2	2	3	3	3	2	3	3	0	4
Performance of healthy participants on the Iowa Gambling Task.	2013	Psychological Assessment	1040-3590	25	1	180-193	"Steingroever, Helen; Wetzels, Ruud; Horstmann, Annette; Neumann, Jane; Wagenmakers, Eric-Jan"	English	"the iowa gambling task (igt; bechara, damasio, damasio, & anderson, 1994) is often used to assess decision-making deficits in clinical populations. the interpretation of the results hinges on 3 key assumptions: (a) healthy participants learn to prefer the good options over the bad options; (b) healthy participants show homogeneous choice behavior; and (c) healthy participants first explore the different options and then exploit the most profitable ones. here we test these assumptions using 2 extensive literature reviews and analysis of 8 data sets. the results show that all 3 assumptions may be invalid; that is, (a) healthy participants often prefer decks with infrequent losses; (b) healthy participants show idiosyncratic choice behavior; and (c) healthy participants do not show a systematic decrease in the number of switches across trials. our findings question the prevailing interpretation of igt data and suggest that, in future applications of the igt, key assumptions about performance of healthy participants warrant close scrutiny."	10.1037/a0029929	Exploratory Behavior; Between Groups Design; *Gambling; *Choice Behavior; *Decision Making; *Psychological Assessment; *Group Differences	"The Iowa Gambling Task (IGT; Bechara, Damasio, Damasio, & Anderson, 1994) is often used to assess decision-making deficits in clinical populations. The interpretation of the results hinges on 3 key assumptions: (a) healthy participants learn to prefer the good options over the bad options; (b) healthy participants show homogeneous choice behavior; and (c) healthy participants first explore the different options and then exploit the most profitable ones. Here we test these assumptions using 2 extensive literature reviews and analysis of 8 data sets. The results show that all 3 assumptions may be invalid; that is, (a) healthy participants often prefer decks with infrequent losses; (b) healthy participants show idiosyncratic choice behavior; and (c) healthy participants do not show a systematic decrease in the number of switches across trials. Our findings question the prevailing interpretation of IGT data and suggest that, in future applications of the IGT, key assumptions about performance of healthy participants warrant close scrutiny. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	709	0	0	0	0	0	6	0	0	3	1	0	1	0	0	1	5	0	4	6	3
Understanding ethanol's acute effects on medial prefrontal cortex neural activity using state-space approaches.	2021	Neuropharmacology	0028-3908	198		108780	"Morningstar, Mitchell; Barnett, William; Goodlett, Charles; Kuznetsov, Alexey; Lapish, Christopher"		"acute ethanol (etoh) intoxication results in several maladaptive behaviors that may be attributable, in part, to the effects of etoh on neural activity in medial prefrontal cortex (mpfc). the acute effects of etoh on mpfc function have been largely described as inhibitory. however, translating these observations on function into a mechanism capable of delineating acute etoh's effects on behavior has proven difficult. this review highlights the role of acute etoh on electrophysiological measurements of mpfc function and proposes that interpreting these changes through the lens of dynamical systems theory is critical to understand the mechanisms that mediate the effects of etoh intoxication on behavior. specifically, the present review posits that the effects of etoh on mpfc n-methyl-d-aspartate (nmda) receptors are critical for the expression of impaired behavior following etoh consumption. this hypothesis is based on the observation that recurrent activity in cortical networks is supported by nmda receptors, and, when disrupted, may lead to impairments in cognitive function. to evaluate this hypothesis, we discuss the representation of mpfc neural activity in low-dimensional, dynamic state spaces. this approach has proven useful for identifying the underlying computations necessary for the production of behavior. ultimately, we hypothesize that etoh-related alterations to nmda receptor function produces alterations that can be effectively conceptualized as impairments in attractor dynamics and provides insight into how acute etoh disrupts forms of cognition that rely on mpfc function., this article is part of the special issue on 'neurocircuitry modulating drug and alcohol abuse'., highlights:, a mechanism is proposed for the cognitive impairing effects of acute alcohol., the acute effects of alcohol on mpfc function are hypothesized to be critical., * a proof-of-concept model suggests how alcohol may alter mpfc activity from a dynamical systems perspective.,"	10.1016/j.neuropharm.2021.108780	Cognition; Prefrontal cortex; Alcohol; Attractor; Dynamics systems theory; Intoxication; Up-states	"Acute ethanol (EtOH) intoxication results in several maladaptive behaviors that may be attributable, in part, to the effects of EtOH on neural activity in medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). The acute effects of EtOH on mPFC function have been largely described as inhibitory. However, translating these observations on function into a mechanism capable of delineating acute EtOH's effects on behavior has proven difficult. This review highlights the role of acute EtOH on electrophysiological measurements of mPFC function and proposes that interpreting these changes through the lens of dynamical systems theory is critical to understand the mechanisms that mediate the effects of EtOH intoxication on behavior. Specifically, the present review posits that the effects of EtOH on mPFC N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors are critical for the expression of impaired behavior following EtOH consumption. This hypothesis is based on the observation that recurrent activity in cortical networks is supported by NMDA receptors, and, when disrupted, may lead to impairments in cognitive function. To evaluate this hypothesis, we discuss the representation of mPFC neural activity in low-dimensional, dynamic state spaces. This approach has proven useful for identifying the underlying computations necessary for the production of behavior. Ultimately, we hypothesize that EtOH-related alterations to NMDA receptor function produces alterations that can be effectively conceptualized as impairments in attractor dynamics and provides insight into how acute EtOH disrupts forms of cognition that rely on mPFC function., This article is part of the special Issue on 'Neurocircuitry Modulating Drug and Alcohol Abuse'., Highlights:, * A mechanism is proposed for the cognitive impairing effects of acute alcohol., * The acute effects of alcohol on mPFC function are hypothesized to be critical., * A proof-of-concept model suggests how alcohol may alter mPFC activity from a dynamical systems perspective., (C) 2021Elsevier, Inc."	1038	0	0	0	0	4	4	0	0	3	0	3	3	1	1	0	3	1	0	1	6
Parameter Variability and Distributional Assumptions in the Diffusion Model.	2013	Psychol Rev	0033-295X	120	1	281-292	"Ratcliff, Roger"		"if the diffusion model ( ratcliff & mckoon, 2008) is to account for the relative speeds of correct responses and errors, it is necessary that the components of processing identified by the model vary across the trials of a task. in standard applications, the rate at which information is accumulated by the diffusion process is assumed to be normally distributed across trials, the starting point for the process is assumed to be uniformly distributed across trials, and the time taken by processes outside the diffusion process is assumed to be uniformly distributed. with the studies in this article, i explore the consequences of alternative assumptions about the distributions, using a wide range of parameter values. the model with the standard assumptions was fit to predictions generated with the alternative assumptions, and the results showed that the recovered parameter values matched the values used to generate the predictions with only a few exceptions. these occurred when parameter combinations were extreme and when a skewed distribution (exponential) of nondecision times was used. the conclusion is that the standard model is robust to moderate changes in the across-trial distributions of parameter values.,"	10.1037/a0030775	diffusion model; parameter distributions; response time and accuracy	"If the diffusion model ( Ratcliff & McKoon, 2008) is to account for the relative speeds of correct responses and errors, it is necessary that the components of processing identified by the model vary across the trials of a task. In standard applications, the rate at which information is accumulated by the diffusion process is assumed to be normally distributed across trials, the starting point for the process is assumed to be uniformly distributed across trials, and the time taken by processes outside the diffusion process is assumed to be uniformly distributed. With the studies in this article, I explore the consequences of alternative assumptions about the distributions, using a wide range of parameter values. The model with the standard assumptions was fit to predictions generated with the alternative assumptions, and the results showed that the recovered parameter values matched the values used to generate the predictions with only a few exceptions. These occurred when parameter combinations were extreme and when a skewed distribution (exponential) of nondecision times was used. The conclusion is that the standard model is robust to moderate changes in the across-trial distributions of parameter values., (C) 2013 by the American Psychological Association"	1425	1	2	1	3	3	1	2	0	2	2	2	2	3	3	3	2	3	3	0	0
"IGT-Open: An open-source, computerized version of the Iowa Gambling Task."	2017	Behavior Research Methods	1554-351X	49	3	972-978	"Dancy, Christopher L; Ritter, Frank E"	English	"the iowa gambling task (igt) is commonly used to understand the processes involved in decision-making. though the task was originally run without a computer, using a computerized version of the task has become typical. these computerized versions of the igt are useful, because they can make the task more standardized across studies and allow for the task to be used in environments where a physical version of the task may be difficult or impossible to use (e.g., while collecting brain imaging data). though these computerized versions of the igt have been useful for experimentation, having multiple software implementations of the task could present reliability issues. we present an open-source software version of the iowa gambling task (called igt-open) that allows for millisecond visual presentation accuracy and is freely available to be used and modified. this software has been used to collect data from human subjects and also has been used to run model-based simulations with computational process models developed to run in the act-r architecture."	10.3758/s13428-016-0759-4	*Decision Making; *Computational Modeling; *Computer Software	"The Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) is commonly used to understand the processes involved in decision-making. Though the task was originally run without a computer, using a computerized version of the task has become typical. These computerized versions of the IGT are useful, because they can make the task more standardized across studies and allow for the task to be used in environments where a physical version of the task may be difficult or impossible to use (e.g., while collecting brain imaging data). Though these computerized versions of the IGT have been useful for experimentation, having multiple software implementations of the task could present reliability issues. We present an open-source software version of the Iowa Gambling Task (called IGT-Open) that allows for millisecond visual presentation accuracy and is freely available to be used and modified. This software has been used to collect data from human subjects and also has been used to run model-based simulations with computational process models developed to run in the ACT-R architecture. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	440	0	0	0	1	1	0	0	0	3	1	0	5	0	0	1	1	0	4	7	8
A simple method for comparing complex models: Bayesian model comparison for hierarchical multinomial processing tree models using Warp-III bridge sampling.	2019	Psychometrika	0033-3123	84	1	261-284	"Gronau, Quentin F; Wagenmakers, Eric-Jan; Heck, Daniel W; Matzke, Dora"	English	"Multinomial processing trees (MPTs) are a popular class of cognitive models for categorical data. Typically, researchers compare several MPTs, each equipped with many parameters, especially when the models are implemented in a hierarchical framework. A Bayesian solution is to compute posterior model probabilities and Bayes factors. Both quantities, however, rely on the marginal likelihood, a high-dimensional integral that cannot be evaluated analytically. In this case study, we show how Warp-III bridge sampling can be used to compute the marginal likelihood for hierarchical MPTs. We illustrate the procedure with two published data sets and demonstrate how Warp-III facilitates Bayesian model averaging"	10.1007/s11336-018-9648-3	*Statistical Probability; *Mathematical Modeling; *Bayesian Analysis; *Mental Models	"[Correction Notice: An Erratum for this article was reported in Vol 84(4) of Psychometrika (see record 2019-51129-001). The original article was published electronically on the publisher's internet portal on 27 November 2018 without open access. With the author(s)' decision to opt for Open Choice the copyright of the article changed on 2 August 2019 to  The Author(s) 2019 and the article is forthwith distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which permits use, duplication, adaptation, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons license and indicate if changes were made.] Multinomial processing trees (MPTs) are a popular class of cognitive models for categorical data. Typically, researchers compare several MPTs, each equipped with many parameters, especially when the models are implemented in a hierarchical framework. A Bayesian solution is to compute posterior model probabilities and Bayes factors. Both quantities, however, rely on the marginal likelihood, a high-dimensional integral that cannot be evaluated analytically. In this case study, we show how Warp-III bridge sampling can be used to compute the marginal likelihood for hierarchical MPTs. We illustrate the procedure with two published data sets and demonstrate how Warp-III facilitates Bayesian model averaging. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	329	1	2	1	3	3	1	2	0	2	2	2	2	3	3	3	2	3	3	0	0
Losses as modulators of attention: Review and analysis of the unique effects of losses over gains.	2013	Psychological Bulletin	0033-2909	139	2	497-518	"Yechiam, Eldad; Hochman, Guy"	English	"it has been shown that in certain situations losses exert a stronger effect on behavior than respective gains, and this has been commonly explained by the argument that losses are given more weight in people's decisions than respective gains. however, although much is understood about the effect of losses on cognitive processes and behavior, 2 major inconsistencies remain. first, recent empirical evidence fails to demonstrate that people avoid incentive structures that carry equivalent gains and losses. second, findings in experience-based decision tasks indicate that following losses, increased arousal is observed simultaneously with no behavioral loss aversion. to account for these findings, we developed an attention-allocation model as a comprehensive framework for the effect of losses. according to this model losses increase on-task attention, thereby enhancing the sensitivity to the reinforcement structure. in the current article we examine whether this model can account for a broad range of empirical phenomena involving losses. we show that as predicted by the attentional model, asymmetric effects of losses on behavior emerge where gains and losses are presented separately but not concurrently. yet, even in the absence of loss aversion, losses have distinct effects on performance, arousal, frontal cortical activation, and behavioral consistency. the attentional model of losses thus explains some of the main inconsistencies in previous studies of the effect of losses."	10.1037/a0029383	*Decision Making; Aversion; Performance; *Attention; Prospect Theory	"It has been shown that in certain situations losses exert a stronger effect on behavior than respective gains, and this has been commonly explained by the argument that losses are given more weight in people's decisions than respective gains. However, although much is understood about the effect of losses on cognitive processes and behavior, 2 major inconsistencies remain. First, recent empirical evidence fails to demonstrate that people avoid incentive structures that carry equivalent gains and losses. Second, findings in experience-based decision tasks indicate that following losses, increased arousal is observed simultaneously with no behavioral loss aversion. To account for these findings, we developed an attention-allocation model as a comprehensive framework for the effect of losses. According to this model losses increase on-task attention, thereby enhancing the sensitivity to the reinforcement structure. In the current article we examine whether this model can account for a broad range of empirical phenomena involving losses. We show that as predicted by the attentional model, asymmetric effects of losses on behavior emerge where gains and losses are presented separately but not concurrently. Yet, even in the absence of loss aversion, losses have distinct effects on performance, arousal, frontal cortical activation, and behavioral consistency. The attentional model of losses thus explains some of the main inconsistencies in previous studies of the effect of losses. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	710	0	0	0	0	0	3	0	0	3	0	3	3	0	0	1	1	2	2	3	3
Methods for Building and Validating Equations for Physiology-Based Mathematical Models.	2016	Medical Decision Making	0272-989X	36	3	410-421	"Eddy, David M.; Schlessinger, Leonard"		"describe steps for deriving and validating equations for physiology processes for use in mathematical models. illustrate the steps using glucose metabolism and type 2 diabetes in the archimedes model. methods and the steps are as follows: identify relevant variables, describe their relationships, identify data sources that relate the variables, correct for biases in data sources, use curve fitting algorithms to estimate equations, validate the accuracy of curve fitting against empirical data, perform partially and fully independent external validations, examine any discrepancies to determine causes and make corrections, and periodically update and revalidate equations as necessary. specific methods depend on the available data. specific data sources and methods are illustrated for equations that represent the cause of type 2 diabetes and its effect on fasting plasma glucose in the archimedes model. methods for validating the equations are illustrated. applications enabled by including physiological equations in healthcare models are discussed. the methods can be used to derive equations that represent the relationships between physiological variables and the causes of diseases and that validate well against empirical data."	10.1177/0272989X15601864	"Algorithms; Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2; Glucose -- Metabolism; Glucose; Variable"	"Objectives. Describe steps for deriving and validating equations for physiology processes for use in mathematical models. Illustrate the steps using glucose metabolism and Type 2 diabetes in the Archimedes model. Methods and Results. The steps are as follows: identify relevant variables, describe their relationships, identify data sources that relate the variables, correct for biases in data sources, use curve fitting algorithms to estimate equations, validate the accuracy of curve fitting against empirical data, perform partially and fully independent external validations, examine any discrepancies to determine causes and make corrections, and periodically update and revalidate equations as necessary. Specific methods depend on the available data. Specific data sources and methods are illustrated for equations that represent the cause of Type 2 diabetes and its effect on fasting plasma glucose in the Archimedes model. Methods for validating the equations are illustrated. Applications enabled by including physiological equations in healthcare models are discussed. Conclusions. The methods can be used to derive equations that represent the relationships between physiological variables and the causes of diseases and that validate well against empirical data."	2087	0	0	0	1	1	0	0	0	3	1	0	5	0	0	2	1	2	2	7	3
Gray matter volume in left rostral middle frontal and left cerebellar cortices predicts frontal executive performance in alcoholic subjects.	2014	Alcoholism: Clinical and Experimental Research	0145-6008	38	4	1126-1133	"Nakamura-Palacios, Ester M; Souza, Rodrigo S. M; Zago-Gomes, Maria P; de Melo, Adriana M. F; Braga, Flavia S; Kubo, Tadeu T. A; Gasparetto, Emerson L"	English	"alcoholic subjects manifest important deficits in frontal executive function, yet maintain cognitive mental status within normal range. this study searched for volumetric measurements of segmented brain structures obtained from magnetic resonance imaging (mri) that would predict executive functions and cognitive mental status in alcoholic subjects. the frontal assessment battery (fab) and the mini-mental state examination (mmse) were applied to alcoholic subjects who underwent mri. cortical and subcortical segmentation and corrections were performed using freesurfer. multiple linear regressions analyses having volumetric measures of segmented brain structures as predictors for fab or mmse scores as dependent measures were conducted. sixty alcoholic subjects, 52 males, mean age of 47.2 +/- sd 10.4 years, with heavy use of alcohol (mean 284.4 +/- sd 275.9 g of alcohol/d) over a long time (mean 32.4 +/- sd 11.1 years), showed fab 11.1 +/- sd 3.2 and mmse of 25.2 +/- sd 4.1. multiple regression analyses having left and right side of each segment as predictors showed that gray matter volumes of rostral middle frontal cortex and cerebellar cortex (p < 0.001), in which only the left side of these structures showed significant partial effects in the full model (p < 0.05), showed to predict fab performance. they were even more predictive when considered together (p < 0.001), in which both left rostral middle frontal cortex (p < 0.05) and left cerebellar cortex (p < 0.01) predictors had significant partial effects in the full model. none of brain structures was predictive of mmse performance. we have concluded that volumetric measurements of left rostral middle frontal and cerebellar cortices seem to be able to predict the frontal executive performance but not the cognitive mental status in alcoholic subjects."	10.1111/acer.12308	Cognition; *Cerebellum; *Executive Function; *Prefrontal Cortex; *Magnetic Resonance Imaging; *Alcoholism; Gray Matter	"Background: Alcoholic subjects manifest important deficits in frontal executive function, yet maintain cognitive mental status within normal range. Methods: This study searched for volumetric measurements of segmented brain structures obtained from magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) that would predict executive functions and cognitive mental status in alcoholic subjects. The frontal assessment battery (FAB) and the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) were applied to alcoholic subjects who underwent MRI. Cortical and subcortical segmentation and corrections were performed using FreeSurfer. Multiple linear regressions analyses having volumetric measures of segmented brain structures as predictors for FAB or MMSE scores as dependent measures were conducted. Sixty alcoholic subjects, 52 males, mean age of 47.2 +/- SD 10.4 years, with heavy use of alcohol (mean 284.4 +/- SD 275.9 g of alcohol/d) over a long time (mean 32.4 +/- SD 11.1 years), showed FAB 11.1 +/- SD 3.2 and MMSE of 25.2 +/- SD 4.1. Results: Multiple regression analyses having left and right side of each segment as predictors showed that gray matter volumes of rostral middle frontal cortex and cerebellar cortex (p < 0.001), in which only the left side of these structures showed significant partial effects in the full model (p < 0.05), showed to predict FAB performance. They were even more predictive when considered together (p < 0.001), in which both left rostral middle frontal cortex (p < 0.05) and left cerebellar cortex (p < 0.01) predictors had significant partial effects in the full model. None of brain structures was predictive of MMSE performance. Conclusions: We have concluded that volumetric measurements of left rostral middle frontal and cerebellar cortices seem to be able to predict the frontal executive performance but not the cognitive mental status in alcoholic subjects. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2024 APA, all rights reserved)"	603	0	0	0	0	0	5	0	0	3	1	0	1	0	0	2	3	1	0	2	1
The Iowa Gambling Task in fMRI images.	2010	Human Brain Mapping	1065-9471	31	3	410-423	"Li, Xiangrui; Lu, Zhong-Lin; D'Argembeau, Arnaud; Ng, Marie; Bechara, Antoine"	English	"the iowa gambling task (igt) is a sensitive test for the detection of decision-making impairments in several neurological and psychiatric populations. very few studies have employed the igt in functional magnetic resonance imaging (fmri) investigations, in part, because the task is cognitively complex. here we report a method for exploring brain activity using fmri during performance of the igt. decision-making during the igt was associated with activity in several brain regions in a group of healthy individuals. the activated regions were consistent with the neural circuitry hypothesized to underlie somatic marker activation and decision-making. specifically, a neural circuitry involving the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (for working memory), the insula and posterior cingulate cortex (for representations of emotional states), the mesial orbitofrontal and ventromedial prefrontal cortex (for coupling the two previous processes), the ventral striatum and anterior cingulate/sma (supplementary motor area) for implementing behavioral decisions was engaged. these results have implications for using the igt to study abnormal mechanisms of decision making in a variety of clinical populations."	10.1002/hbm.20875	*Decision Making; *Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging; *Electrical Activity	"The Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) is a sensitive test for the detection of decision-making impairments in several neurological and psychiatric populations. Very few studies have employed the IGT in functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) investigations, in part, because the task is cognitively complex. Here we report a method for exploring brain activity using fMRI during performance of the IGT. Decision-making during the IGT was associated with activity in several brain regions in a group of healthy individuals. The activated regions were consistent with the neural circuitry hypothesized to underlie somatic marker activation and decision-making. Specifically, a neural circuitry involving the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (for working memory), the insula and posterior cingulate cortex (for representations of emotional states), the mesial orbitofrontal and ventromedial prefrontal cortex (for coupling the two previous processes), the ventral striatum and anterior cingulate/SMA (supplementary motor area) for implementing behavioral decisions was engaged. These results have implications for using the IGT to study abnormal mechanisms of decision making in a variety of clinical populations. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	821	0	1	0	0	4	4	0	0	1	0	3	3	1	1	0	3	1	0	1	1
Drug addiction and its underlying neurobiological basis: Neuroimaging evidence for the involvement of the frontal cortex.	2002	The American Journal of Psychiatry	0002-953X	159	10	1642-1652	"Goldstein, Rita Z; Volkow, Nora D"	English	"the authors evaluated the role of frontal cortical structures in drug addiction. an integrated model of drug addiction that encompasses intoxication, bingeing, withdrawal, and craving is proposed. this model and findings from neuroimaging studies on the behavioral, cognitive, and emotional processes that are at the core of drug addiction were used to analyze the involvement of frontal structures in drug addiction. the orbitofrontal cortex and the anterior cingulate gyrus, which are neuroanatomically connected with limbic structures, are the frontal cortical areas most frequently implicated in drug addiction. they are activated in addicted subjects during intoxication, craving, and bingeing, and they are deactivated during withdrawal. these regions are also involved in higher-order cognitive and motivational functions, such as the ability to track, update, and modulate the salience of a reinforcer as a function of context and expectation and the ability to control and inhibit prepotent responses. results imply that addiction connotes cortically regulated cognitive and emotional processing, which result in the overvaluing of drug reinforcers, the undervaluing of alternative reinforcers, and deficits in inhibitory control for drug responses."	10.1176/appi.ajp.159.10.1642	*Frontal Lobe; *Models; *Drug Addiction; *Drug Abuse; Orbitofrontal Cortex; *Conditioning; Limbic System	"The authors evaluated the role of frontal cortical structures in drug addiction. An integrated model of drug addiction that encompasses intoxication, bingeing, withdrawal, and craving is proposed. This model and findings from neuroimaging studies on the behavioral, cognitive, and emotional processes that are at the core of drug addiction were used to analyze the involvement of frontal structures in drug addiction. The orbitofrontal cortex and the anterior cingulate gyrus, which are neuroanatomically connected with limbic structures, are the frontal cortical areas most frequently implicated in drug addiction. They are activated in addicted subjects during intoxication, craving, and bingeing, and they are deactivated during withdrawal. These regions are also involved in higher-order cognitive and motivational functions, such as the ability to track, update, and modulate the salience of a reinforcer as a function of context and expectation and the ability to control and inhibit prepotent responses. Results imply that addiction connotes cortically regulated cognitive and emotional processing, which result in the overvaluing of drug reinforcers, the undervaluing of alternative reinforcers, and deficits in inhibitory control for drug responses. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	932	0	1	0	0	4	4	0	0	1	0	3	3	1	1	0	3	1	0	1	1
The differential relationship between cocaine use and marijuana use on decision-making performance over repeat testing with the Iowa Gambling Task.	2007	Drug and Alcohol Dependence	0376-8716	90	1	11-Feb	"Verdejo-Garcia, Antonio; Benbrook, Amy; Funderburk, Frank; David, Paula; Cadet, Jean-Lud; Bolla, Karen I"	English	"decision-making deficits are a robust cognitive correlate of substance abuse, but few studies have addressed the long-term differential associations of cocaine use and marijuana (mj) use on decision-making. this study utilized the iowa gambling task (igt), a widely used measure of decision-making, to investigate the relationship between cocaine and mj use and igt learning. we analyzed between and within group differences across two consecutive testing sessions in abstinent users of either mj or cocaine. we assessed long-term correlates of the use of these drugs by evaluating users after 25 days of enforced abstinence. results showed that both cocaine users and mj users performed worse than controls on the total igt net score. all groups showed learning between session 1 and session 2, but the cocaine users showed the smallest increase in performance. the pattern of learning from the beginning to the end (block x block) of the igt (session 2) was different for the drug groups, with the cocaine group showing more learning than the mj group. dose-related measures of cocaine use (g/week) and mj use (joints/week) predicted igt performance (the heavier the drug use the lower the performance). differential correlates of cocaine use and mj use on decision-making learning may have important implications for the development of novel treatment interventions."	10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2007.02.004	Learning; Gambling; *Decision Making; *Cocaine; *Performance; *Cannabis Use; *Drug Usage; Testing	"Decision-making deficits are a robust cognitive correlate of substance abuse, but few studies have addressed the long-term differential associations of cocaine use and marijuana (MJ) use on decision-making. This study utilized the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT), a widely used measure of decision-making, to investigate the relationship between cocaine and MJ use and IGT learning. We analyzed between and within group differences across two consecutive testing sessions in abstinent users of either MJ or cocaine. We assessed long-term correlates of the use of these drugs by evaluating users after 25 days of enforced abstinence. Results showed that both cocaine users and MJ users performed worse than controls on the total IGT net score. All groups showed learning between Session 1 and Session 2, but the cocaine users showed the smallest increase in performance. The pattern of learning from the beginning to the end (block x block) of the IGT (Session 2) was different for the drug groups, with the cocaine group showing more learning than the MJ group. Dose-related measures of cocaine use (g/week) and MJ use (joints/week) predicted IGT performance (the heavier the drug use the lower the performance). Differential correlates of cocaine use and MJ use on decision-making learning may have important implications for the development of novel treatment interventions. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2022 APA, all rights reserved)"	886	0	1	2	2	2	2	0	0	1	0	3	3	1	1	0	3	1	0	8	5
"To simulate or not? Comment on Steingroever, Wetzels, and Wagenmakers (2014)."	2014	Decision	2325-9965	1	3	184-191	"Konstantinidis, Emmanouil; Speekenbrink, Maarten; Stout, Julie C; Ahn, Woo-Young; Shanks, David R"	English	"steingroever, wetzels, and wagenmakers (2014) conducted a detailed investigation of 3 popular reinforcement-learning models for the iowa gambling task using 2 model comparison techniques: a post hoc fit criterion and a simulation method. however, these 2 methods yield inconsistent results regarding which model should be preferred as a description of underlying psychological processes. here, we describe the benefits of each method in an attempt to develop a more balanced view of how to utilize these model comparison techniques, and we outline the risks of focusing on a single method to make inferences about the overall utility of a model. also, we make several suggestions about how applied research should evaluate candidate cognitive models, and we offer guidelines for future research aimed at identifying ""good"" models for decomposing and explaining participants' performance."	10.1037/dec0000016	Gambling; Mathematical Modeling; *Decision Making; *Learning; *Reinforcement	"Steingroever, Wetzels, and Wagenmakers (2014) conducted a detailed investigation of 3 popular reinforcement-learning models for the Iowa gambling task using 2 model comparison techniques: a post hoc fit criterion and a simulation method. However, these 2 methods yield inconsistent results regarding which model should be preferred as a description of underlying psychological processes. Here, we describe the benefits of each method in an attempt to develop a more balanced view of how to utilize these model comparison techniques, and we outline the risks of focusing on a single method to make inferences about the overall utility of a model. Also, we make several suggestions about how applied research should evaluate candidate cognitive models, and we offer guidelines for future research aimed at identifying ""good"" models for decomposing and explaining participants' performance. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	634	1	2	1	3	3	1	2	0	2	2	2	2	3	3	3	2	3	3	0	4
Behavioral and brain response to non-drug rewards in substance abuse: Implications for motivational theories of addiction.	2015	The Wiley handbook on the cognitive neuroscience of addiction.	978-1-118-47224-8 (Hardcover); 978-1-118-47244-6 (Digital (undefined format))		"Addicott, M. A., Baranger, D. A. A., Kozink, R. V., Smoski, M. J., Dichter, G. S., & McClernon, F. J. (2012). Smoking withdrawal is associated with increases in brain activation during decision making and reward anticipation: a preliminary study. Psychopharmacolojjy, 219: 563-573. 2012-00006-027. https://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s00213-011-2404-3 https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/21766170"	79-108	"Bjork, James M"	English	"this chapter focuses on findings related to overt behavioral responses and covert brain responses of drug users or at-risk youth to the anticipation or notification of non-drug rewards. in this chapter i will first discuss motivational theories of addiction or addiction risk and behavioral findings that inform them. next, i will briefly summarize neural systems implicated in the execution and control of motivated behaviors or tasks (in healthy subjects), in order to provide an anatomical framework for where regional brain differences may confer risk for substance use disorder (sud). from there, i will highlight fmri findings that characterize brain differences or similarities in brain reward responsiveness in individuals who are at temperamental or familial risk for drug abuse and in subjects with drug abuse diagnoses (with an emphasis on paradigms that assess reward purely, in a non-decision context). i will then discuss interpretive challenges in this research and will conclude with some ideas about directions for future research."	10.1002/9781118472415.ch4	Theories; Motivation; *Rewards; *Responses; *Addiction; *At Risk Populations; *Drug Abuse	"This chapter focuses on findings related to overt behavioral responses and covert brain responses of drug users or at-risk youth to the anticipation or notification of non-drug rewards. In this chapter I will first discuss motivational theories of addiction or addiction risk and behavioral findings that inform them. Next, I will briefly summarize neural systems implicated in the execution and control of motivated behaviors or tasks (in healthy subjects), in order to provide an anatomical framework for where regional brain differences may confer risk for substance use disorder (SUD). From there, I will highlight fMRI findings that characterize brain differences or similarities in brain reward responsiveness in individuals who are at temperamental or familial risk for drug abuse and in subjects with drug abuse diagnoses (with an emphasis on paradigms that assess reward purely, in a non-decision context). I will then discuss interpretive challenges in this research and will conclude with some ideas about directions for future research. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2023 APA, all rights reserved)"	518	0	1	2	2	2	2	0	0	1	0	4	4	1	1	0	0	4	1	4	1
Bayesian parameter estimation in the expectancy valence model of the Iowa gambling task.	2010	Journal of Mathematical Psychology	0022-2496	54	1	14-27	"Wetzels, Ruud; Vandekerckhove, Joachim; Tuerlinckx, Francis; Wagenmakers, Eric-Jan"	English	"the purpose of the popular iowa gambling task is to study decision making deficits in clinical populations by mimicking real-life decision making in an experimental context. busemeyer and stout [busemeyer, j. r., & stout, j. c. (2002). a contribution of cognitive decision models to clinical assessment: decomposing performance on the bechara gambling task. psychological assessment, 14, 253-262] proposed an ""expectancy valence"" reinforcement learning model that estimates three latent components which are assumed to jointly determine choice behavior in the iowa gambling task: weighing of wins versus losses, memory for past payoffs, and response consistency. in this article we explore the statistical properties of the expectancy valence model. we first demonstrate the difficulty of applying the model on the level of a single participant, we then propose and implement a bayesian hierarchical estimation procedure to coherently combine information from different participants, and we finally apply the bayesian estimation procedure to data from an experiment designed to provide a test of specific influence."	10.1016/j.jmp.2008.12.001	Psychometrics; *Gambling; *Decision Making; *Cognitive Impairment; Test Reliability; Test Validity; *Models; *Statistical Estimation	"The purpose of the popular Iowa gambling task is to study decision making deficits in clinical populations by mimicking real-life decision making in an experimental context. Busemeyer and Stout [Busemeyer, J. R., & Stout, J. C. (2002). A contribution of cognitive decision models to clinical assessment: Decomposing performance on the Bechara gambling task. Psychological Assessment, 14, 253-262] proposed an ""Expectancy Valence"" reinforcement learning model that estimates three latent components which are assumed to jointly determine choice behavior in the Iowa gambling task: weighing of wins versus losses, memory for past payoffs, and response consistency. In this article we explore the statistical properties of the Expectancy Valence model. We first demonstrate the difficulty of applying the model on the level of a single participant, we then propose and implement a Bayesian hierarchical estimation procedure to coherently combine information from different participants, and we finally apply the Bayesian estimation procedure to data from an experiment designed to provide a test of specific influence. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	819	1	2	1	3	3	1	2	0	2	2	2	2	3	3	3	2	3	3	0	0
Analysis of behavior of drug addicts in Iowa gambling task using reinforcement learning model.	2010	Advances in Cognitive Science	1561-4174	12	"2, 46"	15-25	"Dezfoli, Amir; Karamati, Mohammad Mehdi; Safaie, Houman; Looks, Karo; Mokri, Azarakhsh; Ekhtiari, Hamed"	Farsi (Iranian)	"the aim of this study was to assess decision making disorders in opioid dependents in riskful situations, using cognitive modeling. first, the decision making process of participants (treatment-seeking dependents and the normal group) was evaluated using the farsi version of iowa gambling task; and then the data were analyzed using cognitive modeling. different models of decision making in riskful situations in the gambling task were designed based on reinforcement learning and gambling task circumstances. in the next step, the models were simulated in gambling task environment and were separately fitted on the data of both groups. thereafter, the model with higher correspondence with the subject behavior in each group was determined. both the group of treatment-seeking dependents (n = 127) and the control group (n = 130) showed a weak performance in the task (pure scores lower than 10). in addition, the performance of the dependent group was weaker than that of the normal group (p < 0.07). modeling results indicated that the optimum model in both groups was the model that was focused only on the frequency of reward and punishment (not on their size), in the assessment of different choices. sensitivity revealing method revealed that the optimum model for the dependent group, in addition to merely focusing on the frequency of reward and punishment, is affected by harm-avoidance more than the control group. conclusion: the above-mentioned results indicate that the reason for the low scores obtained in both groups, is ignoring the size of reward and punishment and focusing on their frequency. moreover, the reason for the lower output in the dependent group in comparison with the control group is a lack of balance between harm avoidance and reward dependence and a bias toward harm avoidance. the mentioned bias toward harm avoidance could be associated with the specific circumstances of treatment seeking drug dependents."		Decision Making; *Learning; *Behavior Analysis; Reinforcement; *Health Care Seeking Behavior; *Drug Addiction	"Objective: The aim of this study was to assess decision making disorders in opioid dependents in riskful situations, using cognitive modeling. First, the decision making process of participants (treatment-seeking dependents and the normal group) was evaluated using the Farsi version of Iowa gambling task; and then the data were analyzed using cognitive modeling. Different models of decision making in riskful situations in the gambling task were designed based on reinforcement learning and gambling task circumstances. In the next step, the models were simulated in gambling task environment and were separately fitted on the data of both groups. Thereafter, the model with higher correspondence with the subject behavior in each group was determined. Results: Both the group of treatment-seeking dependents (n = 127) and the control group (n = 130) showed a weak performance in the task (pure scores lower than 10). In addition, the performance of the dependent group was weaker than that of the normal group (p < 0.07). Modeling results indicated that the optimum model in both groups was the model that was focused only on the frequency of reward and punishment (not on their size), in the assessment of different choices. Sensitivity revealing method revealed that the optimum model for the dependent group, in addition to merely focusing on the frequency of reward and punishment, is affected by harm-avoidance more than the control group. Conclusion: The above-mentioned results indicate that the reason for the low scores obtained in both groups, is ignoring the size of reward and punishment and focusing on their frequency. Moreover, the reason for the lower output in the dependent group in comparison with the control group is a lack of balance between harm avoidance and reward dependence and a bias toward harm avoidance. The mentioned bias toward harm avoidance could be associated with the specific circumstances of treatment seeking drug dependents. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	802	0	1	0	0	0	3	0	0	1	0	3	3	0	0	1	1	2	2	3	3
The performance of college students on the Iowa Gambling Task: Differences between scoring approaches.	2022	Assessment	1073-1911	29	6	1190-1203	"Barnhart, Wesley R; Buelow, Melissa T"	English	"the iowa gambling task (igt) is one of the most common behavioral decision-making tasks used in clinical and research settings. less-than-expected performance among healthy adults generates concerns about the validity of this task, and it is possible the particular scoring approach utilized could impact interpretation. we examined how performance patterns changed across several scoring approaches, utilizing a large, college student sample, both with (n = 406) and without (n = 1,547) a self-reported history of psychiatric or other diagnosis. higher net scores were seen when participants selected decks with a low loss frequency than decks with high long-term outcomes; however, participants overall underperformed the igt normative data sample. receiver operating characteristic curves examining multiple scoring approaches revealed no threshold of impaired performance that both maximized sensitivity and minimized false positive rate on the igt. scoring approach matters in the determination of impaired decision making via the igt in adults."	10.1177/10731911211004741	*Decision Making; *Statistical Probability; *College Students; *Errors; *Patient History; Diagnosis; Research Setting	"The Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) is one of the most common behavioral decision-making tasks used in clinical and research settings. Less-than-expected performance among healthy adults generates concerns about the validity of this task, and it is possible the particular scoring approach utilized could impact interpretation. We examined how performance patterns changed across several scoring approaches, utilizing a large, college student sample, both with (n = 406) and without (n = 1,547) a self-reported history of psychiatric or other diagnosis. Higher net scores were seen when participants selected decks with a low loss frequency than decks with high long-term outcomes; however, participants overall underperformed the IGT normative data sample. Receiver operating characteristic curves examining multiple scoring approaches revealed no threshold of impaired performance that both maximized sensitivity and minimized false positive rate on the IGT. Scoring approach matters in the determination of impaired decision making via the IGT in adults. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2022 APA, all rights reserved)"	172	0	0	0	1	1	0	0	0	3	1	0	5	0	0	1	5	0	4	5	8
The detrimental effects of emotional process dysregulation on decision-making in substance dependence.	2012	Frontiers in Integrative Neuroscience		6	"Aghajanian, G. K., & Bunney, B. S. (1977). Pharmacological characterization of dopamine ""autoreceptors"" by microiontophoretic singlecell recording studies. Adv. Biochem. Psychopharmacol. 16, 433-438."		"Murphy, Anna; Taylor, Eleanor; Elliott, Rebecca"	English	"substance dependence is complex and multifactorial, with many distinct pathways involved in both the development and subsequent maintenance of addictive behaviors. various cognitive mechanisms have been implicated, including impulsivity, compulsivity, and impaired decision-making. these mechanisms are modulated by emotional processes, resulting in increased likelihood of initial drug use, sustained substance dependence, and increased relapse during periods of abstinence. emotional traits, such as sensation-seeking, are risk factors for substance use, and chronic drug use can result in further emotional dysregulation via effects on reward, motivation, and stress systems. we will explore theories of hyper and hypo sensitivity of the brain reward systems that may underpin motivational abnormalities and anhedonia. disturbances in these systems contribute to the biasing of emotional processing toward cues related to drug use at the expense of natural rewards, which serves to maintain addictive behavior, via enhanced drug craving. we will additionally focus on the sensitization of the brain stress systems that result in negative affect states that continue into protracted abstinence that is may lead to compulsive drug-taking. we will explore how these emotional dysregulations impact upon decision-making controlled by goal-directed and habitual action selections systems, and, in combination with a failure of prefrontal inhibitory control, mediate maladaptive decision-making observed in substance dependent individuals such that they continue drug use in spite of negative consequences. an understanding of the emotional impacts on cognition in substance dependent individuals may guide the development of more effective therapeutic interventions."	10.3389/fnint.2012.00101	Addiction; Rewards; *Decision Making; *Brain; *Prefrontal Cortex; *Drug Abuse; Emotional Responses	"Substance dependence is complex and multifactorial, with many distinct pathways involved in both the development and subsequent maintenance of addictive behaviors. Various cognitive mechanisms have been implicated, including impulsivity, compulsivity, and impaired decision-making. These mechanisms are modulated by emotional processes, resulting in increased likelihood of initial drug use, sustained substance dependence, and increased relapse during periods of abstinence. Emotional traits, such as sensation-seeking, are risk factors for substance use, and chronic drug use can result in further emotional dysregulation via effects on reward, motivation, and stress systems. We will explore theories of hyper and hypo sensitivity of the brain reward systems that may underpin motivational abnormalities and anhedonia. Disturbances in these systems contribute to the biasing of emotional processing toward cues related to drug use at the expense of natural rewards, which serves to maintain addictive behavior, via enhanced drug craving. We will additionally focus on the sensitization of the brain stress systems that result in negative affect states that continue into protracted abstinence that is may lead to compulsive drug-taking. We will explore how these emotional dysregulations impact upon decision-making controlled by goal-directed and habitual action selections systems, and, in combination with a failure of prefrontal inhibitory control, mediate maladaptive decision-making observed in substance dependent individuals such that they continue drug use in spite of negative consequences. An understanding of the emotional impacts on cognition in substance dependent individuals may guide the development of more effective therapeutic interventions. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	724	0	1	2	2	2	2	0	0	1	0	4	4	1	1	0	0	4	1	4	1
Different types of criminals' decision-making defects in the Iowa Gambling Task.	2011	Acta Psychologica Sinica	0439-755X	43	1	30-41	"Luo, Yu; Feng, Ting-Yong; Tang, Xiang-Dong; Huang, Hao; Li, Hong"	Chinese	"affective decision making is an individual ability to make choice under uncertainty. criminal behavior is a result of criminals' decision-making under uncertainty. criminals are to be fettered and thrown into prison because they have made wrong decisions. are there any defects of different types of criminals' decision-making function? if there are, what caused their defects? and are these reasons different or the same? the iowa gambling task (igt) which developed by bechara et al. (1994) has been widely used to evaluate decision-making ability under uncertainty. in this study, 222 male criminals and 32 controlled normal males were recruited. all of them were asked to fill out a demographical form and then complete igt. a 10 (block)x9 (participant type: 8 types of criminal group and 1 control group) experimental design was adopted. the independent variables were patricipant type and block, dependent variable were the proportion of advantage decks [(deck3+deck4)/100] and each deck. the prospect utility learning model (pul) (ahn et al., 2008) was applied to analysis participants' choices behavior. pul model contained four parameters: loss aversion (lambda), shape of function (alpha), learning update rate (a), and choice consistency (c). a repeated anova was applied to the data analysis. (1) along with time passing, control group chose more from advantage deck 3 and 4, but 8 types of criminals preferred disadvantage deck 2. there was no significant difference in disadvantage deck 1 between criminals and control group. (2) comparing to the control group, violent offenders and mafia-like criminals' loss aversion parameter and shape of function parameter were significant lower, which indicated that they were not sensitive to reward and punishment. their learning update rate was higher than control and other types of criminals which indicated that they were fast discount the utility of past events. and their choice consistency was significant higher than other types of participant indicated that they did not form right utility of each deck. drug abstainers, drug criminal, thief and robbery were lower in the loss aversion parameter, which indicated that they were insensitive to punishment; there higher choice consistency indicated that they did not form right utility of each deck. sex offender's choice consistency parameter was higher than control, but their loss aversion, shape of function, and learning update rate parameters were normal. so, their high choice consistency may indicate that their behavioral reversal function were defected. economic criminal's choice consistency was very low may indicated that they were more cautious than other types of criminal. in conclusion, the present research suggested that different types of criminal have decision-making functional deficits, and the reasons caused these deficits were different."		Uncertainty; *Gambling; *Decision Making; *Criminal Behavior; *Criminal Offenders	"Affective decision making is an individual ability to make choice under uncertainty. Criminal behavior is a result of criminals' decision-making under uncertainty. Criminals are to be fettered and thrown into prison because they have made wrong decisions. Are there any defects of different types of criminals' decision-making function? If there are, what caused their defects? And are these reasons different or the same? The Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) which developed by Bechara et al. (1994) has been widely used to evaluate decision-making ability under uncertainty. In this study, 222 male criminals and 32 controlled normal males were recruited. All of them were asked to fill out a demographical form and then complete IGT. A 10 (block)x9 (participant type: 8 types of criminal group and 1 control group) experimental design was adopted. The independent variables were patricipant type and block, dependent variable were the proportion of advantage decks [(deck3+deck4)/100] and each deck. The Prospect Utility Learning model (PUL) (Ahn et al., 2008) was applied to analysis participants' choices behavior. PUL model contained four parameters: loss aversion (lambda), shape of function (alpha), learning update rate (A), and choice consistency (c). A repeated ANOVA was applied to the data analysis. (1) Along with time passing, control group chose more from advantage deck 3 and 4, but 8 types of criminals preferred disadvantage deck 2. There was no significant difference in disadvantage deck 1 between criminals and control group. (2) Comparing to the control group, violent offenders and mafia-like criminals' loss aversion parameter and shape of function parameter were significant lower, which indicated that they were not sensitive to reward and punishment. Their learning update rate was higher than control and other types of criminals which indicated that they were fast discount the utility of past events. And their choice consistency was significant higher than other types of participant indicated that they did not form right utility of each deck. Drug abstainers, drug criminal, thief and robbery were lower in the loss aversion parameter, which indicated that they were insensitive to punishment; there higher choice consistency indicated that they did not form right utility of each deck. Sex offender's choice consistency parameter was higher than control, but their loss aversion, shape of function, and learning update rate parameters were normal. So, their high choice consistency may indicate that their behavioral reversal function were defected. Economic criminal's choice consistency was very low may indicated that they were more cautious than other types of criminal. In conclusion, the present research suggested that different types of criminal have decision-making functional deficits, and the reasons caused these deficits were different. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	782	0	0	0	0	0	3	0	0	3	1	0	1	0	0	1	5	2	2	3	3
Exploring decision-making strategies in the Iowa Gambling Task and rat gambling task.	2022	Frontiers in Behavioral Neuroscience		16	"Adams, W. K., Barkus, C., Ferland, J.-M. N., Sharp, T., & Winstanley, C. A. (2017a). Pharmacological evidence that 5-HT2C receptor blockade selectively improves decision making when rewards are paired with audiovisual cues in a rat gambling task. Psychopharmacology 234 3091-3104. PMID: 28733811 https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/28733811 https://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s00213-017-4696-4 2017-32181-001."		"Hultman, Cathrine; Tjernstrom, Nikita; Vadlin, Sofia; Rehn, Mattias; Nilsson, Kent W; Roman, Erika; Aslund, Cecilia"	English	"decision-making requires that individuals perceive the probabilities and risks associated with different options. experimental human and animal laboratory testing provide complimentary insights on the psychobiological underpinnings of decision-making. the iowa gambling task (igt) is a widely used instrument that assesses decision-making under uncertainty and risk. in the task participants are faced with a choice conflict between cards with varying monetary reinforcer/loss contingencies. the rat gambling task (rgt) is a pre-clinical version using palatable reinforcers as wins and timeouts mimicking losses. however, interspecies studies elaborating on human and rat behavior in these tasks are lacking. this study explores decision-making strategies among young adults (n = 270) performing a computerized version of the igt, and adult outbred male lister hooded rats (n = 72) performing the rgt. both group and individual data were explored by normative scoring approaches and subgroup formations based on individual choices were investigated. overall results showed that most humans and rats learned to favor the advantageous choices, but to a widely different extent. human performance was characterized by both exploration and learning as the task progressed, while rats showed relatively consistent pronounced preferences for the advantageous choices throughout the task. nevertheless, humans and rats showed similar variability in individual choice preferences during end performance. procedural differences impacting on the performance in both tasks and their potential to study different aspects of decision-making are discussed. this is a first attempt to increase the understanding of similarities and differences regarding decision-making processes in the igt and rgt from an explorative perspective."	10.3389/fnbeh.2022.964348	Rats; Exploratory Behavior; *Decision Making; *Uncertainty; *Preferences; *Choice Shift	"Decision-making requires that individuals perceive the probabilities and risks associated with different options. Experimental human and animal laboratory testing provide complimentary insights on the psychobiological underpinnings of decision-making. The Iowa gambling task (IGT) is a widely used instrument that assesses decision-making under uncertainty and risk. In the task participants are faced with a choice conflict between cards with varying monetary reinforcer/loss contingencies. The rat gambling task (rGT) is a pre-clinical version using palatable reinforcers as wins and timeouts mimicking losses. However, interspecies studies elaborating on human and rat behavior in these tasks are lacking. This study explores decision-making strategies among young adults (N = 270) performing a computerized version of the IGT, and adult outbred male Lister Hooded rats (N = 72) performing the rGT. Both group and individual data were explored by normative scoring approaches and subgroup formations based on individual choices were investigated. Overall results showed that most humans and rats learned to favor the advantageous choices, but to a widely different extent. Human performance was characterized by both exploration and learning as the task progressed, while rats showed relatively consistent pronounced preferences for the advantageous choices throughout the task. Nevertheless, humans and rats showed similar variability in individual choice preferences during end performance. Procedural differences impacting on the performance in both tasks and their potential to study different aspects of decision-making are discussed. This is a first attempt to increase the understanding of similarities and differences regarding decision-making processes in the IGT and rGT from an explorative perspective. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2022 APA, all rights reserved)"	163	0	0	0	0	0	5	0	0	3	1	0	1	0	0	1	5	0	4	2	8
Resting Regional Cerebral Blood Flow and Gambling Task Performance in Cocaine-Dependent Subjects and Healthy Comparison Subjects.	2003	The American Journal of Psychiatry	0002-953X	160	10	1892-1894	"Adinoff, Bryon; Devous, Michael D; Cooper, Douglas B; Best, Susan E; Chandler, Patricia; Harris, Thomas; Cervin, Carole Anne; Cullum, C. Munro"	English	"orbitofrontal cortex regional cerebral blood flow (rcbf) is lower in cocaine-dependent subjects than in non-cocaine-dependent subjects. performance on the gambling task, a test of decision making, is a putative correlate of orbitofrontal cortex activity and is reportedly impaired in drug-dependent subjects. the authors tested the hypothesis that lower gambling task scores would be associated with lower resting orbitofrontal cortex rcbf in cocaine-dependent subjects. method: fifteen healthy comparison subjects and 13 abstinent cocaine-dependent subjects underwent resting single photon emission computed tomography to measure rcbf, after which they completed the gambling task. resting anterior cingulate and left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex rcbf significantly correlated with performance on the gambling task, but orbitofrontal cortex rcbf did not. left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex rcbf was lower in the cocaine-dependent subjects than in the comparison subjects. resting anterior cingulate and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex rcbf is significantly related to decision making, as assessed by the gambling task."	10.1176/appi.ajp.160.10.1892	*Cocaine; *Cognitive Impairment; *Frontal Lobe; *Drug Dependency; Orbitofrontal Cortex; *Cerebral Blood Flow	"Objective: Orbitofrontal cortex regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) is lower in cocaine-dependent subjects than in non-cocaine-dependent subjects. Performance on the Gambling Task, a test of decision making, is a putative correlate of orbitofrontal cortex activity and is reportedly impaired in drug-dependent subjects. The authors tested the hypothesis that lower Gambling Task scores would be associated with lower resting orbitofrontal cortex rCBF in cocaine-dependent subjects. Method: Fifteen healthy comparison subjects and 13 abstinent cocaine-dependent subjects underwent resting single photon emission computed tomography to measure rCBF, after which they completed the Gambling Task. Results: Resting anterior cingulate and left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex rCBF significantly correlated with performance on the Gambling Task, but orbitofrontal cortex rCBF did not. Left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex rCBF was lower in the cocaine-dependent subjects than in the comparison subjects. Conclusions: Resting anterior cingulate and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex rCBF is significantly related to decision making, as assessed by the Gambling Task. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	928	0	0	0	1	1	0	0	0	3	1	0	1	0	0	2	1	2	2	5	1
Longitudinal changes in cognition in young adult cannabis users.	2018	Journal of Clinical and Experimental Neuropsychology	1380-3395	40	6	529-543	"Becker, Mary P; Collins, Paul F; Schultz, Ashley; Urosevic, Snezana; Schmaling, Brittany; Luciana, Monica"	English	"adolescent cannabis use (cu) is associated with impaired attention, executive function, and verbal learning/memory. these associations are generally observed in cross-sectional studies. longitudinal studies of cannabis users are lacking. method: the present study examines associations between cu and cognition over time in chronic daily adolescent-onset cus, as compared to nonusing controls. both groups completed a neuropsychological battery at study intake and again 2 years later. baseline group differences have been published and indicated deficits in verbal learning and memory, motivated decision-making, planning, and working memory in cus. in this follow-up report, the longitudinal performance of users is compared to that of sustained nonusers using the same battery. at follow-up, the majority of cus continued to report regular and heavy cannabis use. relative impairments in the domains of working memory, planning and verbal memory remained stable, suggesting that these are enduring vulnerabilities associated with continued cu during young adulthood. improvements in motivated decision-making were evident in both groups. in addition, cus demonstrated relatively better performance on short-duration speeded tasks. an earlier age of cu onset was associated with poorer verbal learning and memory and planning performance over time. verbal learning and memory and planning processes, as well as their neural correlates, merit further scrutiny within etiological models of cannabis-induced cognitive impairments."	10.1080/13803395.2017.1385729	Memory; Executive Function; Adolescent Development; Longitudinal Studies; *Cannabis; *Cognitive Impairment; *Neuropsychological Assessment; *Neurocognition; *Drug Usage	"Introduction: Adolescent cannabis use (CU) is associated with impaired attention, executive function, and verbal learning/memory. These associations are generally observed in cross-sectional studies. Longitudinal studies of cannabis users are lacking. Method: The present study examines associations between CU and cognition over time in chronic daily adolescent-onset CUs, as compared to nonusing controls. Both groups completed a neuropsychological battery at study intake and again 2 years later. Results: Baseline group differences have been published and indicated deficits in verbal learning and memory, motivated decision-making, planning, and working memory in CUs. In this follow-up report, the longitudinal performance of users is compared to that of sustained nonusers using the same battery. At follow-up, the majority of CUs continued to report regular and heavy cannabis use. Relative impairments in the domains of working memory, planning and verbal memory remained stable, suggesting that these are enduring vulnerabilities associated with continued CU during young adulthood. Improvements in motivated decision-making were evident in both groups. In addition, CUs demonstrated relatively better performance on short-duration speeded tasks. An earlier age of CU onset was associated with poorer verbal learning and memory and planning performance over time. Conclusions: Verbal learning and memory and planning processes, as well as their neural correlates, merit further scrutiny within etiological models of cannabis-induced cognitive impairments. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	384	0	0	0	0	0	5	1	1	0	3	1	0	2	2	5	4	5	5	2	2
The Simulated Gambling Paradigm Applied to Young Adults: An Examination of University Students' Performance.	2006	Applied Neuropsychology	0908-4282	13	4	203-212	"Caroselli, Jerome Silvio; Hiscock, Merrill; Scheibel, Randall S; Ingram, Fred"	English	"simulated gambling tasks have become popular as sensitive tools for identifying individuals with real-time impairment in decision making. various clinical samples, especially patients with damage to the ventromedial prefrontal cortex, perform poorly on these tasks. the patients typically persist in choosing risky (disadvantageous) card decks instead of switching to safer (advantageous) decks. in terms of damasio's (1994) somatic marker hypothesis, the poor performance stems from defective integration of emotional and rational aspects of decision making. less information is available about performance in healthy populations, particularly young adults. after administering a computerized gambling task to 141 university students, we found that individuals in this population also tend to prefer disadvantageous decks to advantageous decks. the results indicate that performance is governed primarily by the frequency of positive outcomes on a trial-by-trial basis rather than by the accumulation of winnings in the longer term. these findings are discussed in light of the cognitive literature pertaining to the simulated gambling paradigm."	10.1207/s15324826an1304_1	*Gambling; *Decision Making; *Risk Taking; *Neuropsychology; Performance; *Future; Consequence	"Simulated gambling tasks have become popular as sensitive tools for identifying individuals with real-time impairment in decision making. Various clinical samples, especially patients with damage to the ventromedial prefrontal cortex, perform poorly on these tasks. The patients typically persist in choosing risky (disadvantageous) card decks instead of switching to safer (advantageous) decks. In terms of Damasio's (1994) somatic marker hypothesis, the poor performance stems from defective integration of emotional and rational aspects of decision making. Less information is available about performance in healthy populations, particularly young adults. After administering a computerized gambling task to 141 university students, we found that individuals in this population also tend to prefer disadvantageous decks to advantageous decks. The results indicate that performance is governed primarily by the frequency of positive outcomes on a trial-by-trial basis rather than by the accumulation of winnings in the longer term. These findings are discussed in light of the cognitive literature pertaining to the simulated gambling paradigm. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	901	0	0	0	0	0	5	0	0	3	1	0	1	0	0	1	5	0	4	2	8
Decisions during negatively-framed messages yield smaller risk-aversion-related brain activation in substance-dependent individuals.	2013	Psychology of Addictive Behaviors	0893-164X	27	4	1141-1152	"Fukunaga, Rena; Bogg, Tim; Finn, Peter R; Brown, Joshua W"	English	"a sizable segment of addiction research investigates the effects of persuasive message appeals on risky and deleterious behaviors. however, to date, little research has examined how various forms of message framing and corresponding behavioral choices might by mediated by risk-related brain regions. using event-related functional mri, we investigated brain regions hypothesized to mediate the influence of message appeals on decision making in substance-dependent (sd) compared with nonsubstance-dependent (non-sd) individuals. the iowa gambling task (igt) was modified to include positively-framed, negatively-framed, and control messages about long-term deck payoffs. in the positively-framed condition, the sd and non-sd groups showed improved decision-making performance that corresponded to higher risk-aversion-related brain activity in the anterior cingulate cortex (acc) and anterior insula (ai). in contrast, in the negatively-framed condition, the sd group showed poorer performance that corresponded to lower risk-aversion-related brain activity in the ai region. in addition, only the non-sd group showed a positive association between decision quality and greater risk-related activity in the acc, regardless of message type. the findings suggest substance-dependent individuals may have reduced neurocognitive sensitivity in the acc and ai regions involved in risk perception and aversion during decision-making, especially in response to framed messages that emphasize reduced prospects for long-term gains."	10.1037/a0030633	*Decision Making; *Brain; Cognitive Control; *Drug Dependency; Cingulate Cortex; Messages	"A sizable segment of addiction research investigates the effects of persuasive message appeals on risky and deleterious behaviors. However, to date, little research has examined how various forms of message framing and corresponding behavioral choices might by mediated by risk-related brain regions. Using event-related functional MRI, we investigated brain regions hypothesized to mediate the influence of message appeals on decision making in substance-dependent (SD) compared with nonsubstance-dependent (non-SD) individuals. The Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) was modified to include positively-framed, negatively-framed, and control messages about long-term deck payoffs. In the positively-framed condition, the SD and non-SD groups showed improved decision-making performance that corresponded to higher risk-aversion-related brain activity in the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) and anterior insula (AI). In contrast, in the negatively-framed condition, the SD group showed poorer performance that corresponded to lower risk-aversion-related brain activity in the AI region. In addition, only the non-SD group showed a positive association between decision quality and greater risk-related activity in the ACC, regardless of message type. The findings suggest substance-dependent individuals may have reduced neurocognitive sensitivity in the ACC and AI regions involved in risk perception and aversion during decision-making, especially in response to framed messages that emphasize reduced prospects for long-term gains. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved)"	708	0	1	0	0	4	4	0	0	1	0	3	3	1	1	0	1	1	0	1	1