Cluster 0:
A Comparison of Reinforcement Learning Models for the Iowa Gambling Task Using Parameter Space Partitioning.
Computational modeling for addiction medicine: From cognitive models to clinical applications
To simulate or not? Comment on Steingroever, Wetzels, and Wagenmakers (2014).
Bayesian parameter estimation in the expectancy valence model of the Iowa gambling task.
A mixed-effects expectancy-valence model for the Iowa gambling task.
Component Processes of Decision Making in a Community Sample of Precariously Housed Persons: Associations With Learning and Memory, and Health-Risk Behaviors
Validating the PVL-Delta model for the Iowa gambling task.
The expectancy valence model of the Iowa Gambling Task: Can it produce reliable estimates for individuals?
Performance of healthy participants on the Iowa Gambling Task.
Decision-making in stimulant and opiate addicts in protracted abstinence: Evidence from computational modeling with pure users.
An improved cognitive model of the Iowa and Soochow Gambling Tasks with regard to model fitting performance and tests of parameter consistency
Absolute performance of reinforcement-learning models for the Iowa Gambling Task.
Comparison of Decision Learning Models Using the Generalization Criterion Method.
W=.2, a=.8, c=.6: So what? On the meaning of parameter estimates from reinforcement-learning models.
Bayes factors for reinforcement-learning models of the Iowa gambling task.
Evaluating generalizability and parameter consistency in learning models.
Cognitive mechanisms underlying risky decision-making in chronic cannabis users


Cluster 1:
The basolateral amygdala in reward learning and addiction.
Analysis of behavior of drug addicts in Iowa gambling task using reinforcement learning model.
Computational modelling of switching behaviour in repeated gambles.
Cognitive choice modeling.
The drift diffusion model as the choice rule in reinforcement learning.
On the importance of avoiding shortcuts in applying cognitive models to hierarchical data.
Testing the factor structure underlying behavior using joint cognitive models: Impulsivity in delay discounting and Cambridge gambling tasks.
Parameter Variability and Distributional Assumptions in the Diffusion Model.
Experimental manipulation of working memory model parameters: An exercise in construct validity.
Editorial: bridging the gap with computational and translational psychopharmacology.
Methods for Building and Validating Equations for Physiology-Based Mathematical Models.
A simple method for comparing complex models: Bayesian model comparison for hierarchical multinomial processing tree models using Warp-III bridge sampling.
How to Use a Multicriteria Comparison Procedure to Improve Modeling Competitions: A Comment on Erev et al. (2017)
Using Bayesian regression to test hypotheses about relationships between parameters and covariates in cognitive models.
The relative merit of empirical priors in non-identifiable and sloppy models: Applications to models of learning and decision-making: Empirical priors.
A simplified model of choice behavior under uncertainty.
Generalization of value in reinforcement learning by humans.
Dissociable processes underlying decisions in the Iowa Gambling Task: A new integrative framework.
Decomposing conditioned avoidance performance with computational models.
Bayesian techniques for analyzing group differences in the Iowa Gambling Task: A case study of intuitive and deliberate decision-makers.
Individual differences in computational psychiatry: A review of current challenges.
Sequential exploration in the Iowa gambling task: Validation of a new computational model in a large dataset of young and old healthy participants.
Strategy switching in a sequence of decisions: Evidence from the Iowa Gambling Task.
Systematic parameter reviews in cognitive modeling: Towards a robust and cumulative characterization of psychological processes in the diffusion decision model.
How Working Memory and Reinforcement Learning Are Intertwined: A Cognitive, Neural, and Computational Perspective.
Models that learn how humans learn: The case of decision-making and its disorders.
Computational mechanisms underlying latent value updating of unchosen actions.
Decomposing the roles of perseveration and expected value representation in models of the Iowa Gambling Task.


Cluster 2:
Long-Term Outcomes of Adolescent THC Exposure on Translational Cognitive Measures in Adulthood in an Animal Model and Computational Assessment of Human Data
Longitudinal changes in cognition in young adult cannabis users.
Cognitive mechanisms in risky decision-making in cannabis users
Iowa Gambling Task in schizophrenia: A review and new data in patients with schizophrenia and co-occurring cannabis use disorders.
Cannabis and cognitive dysfunction: Parallels with endophenotypes of schizophrenia?
Orbitofrontal cortex thickness and substance use disorders in emerging adulthood: causal inferences from a co_twin control/discordant twin study.
Seeing through the smoke: Human and animal studies of cannabis use and endocannabinoid signalling in corticolimbic networks.
The role of decision-making in cannabis-related problems among young adults.
Age of onset of cannabis use and decision making under uncertainty
The neuropsychological correlates of cannabis use in schizophrenia: Lifetime abuse/dependence, frequency of use, and recency of use.
Decision making and impulsivity in young adult cannabis users.
Reflection impulsivity in adolescent cannabis users: a comparison with alcohol-using and non-substance-using adolescents.


Cluster 3:
Diffusion tensor imaging and decision making in cocaine dependence.
Effects of cocaine rewards on neural representations of cognitive demand in nonhuman primates.
Cognitive modeling analysis of decision-making processes in cocaine abusers.
Decision making in addiction to crack: A study with the Iowa Gambling Task.
The differential relationship between cocaine use and marijuana use on decision-making performance over repeat testing with the Iowa Gambling Task.
Characterizing the cognitive effects of cocaine: A comprehensive review
Resting Regional Cerebral Blood Flow and Gambling Task Performance in Cocaine-Dependent Subjects and Healthy Comparison Subjects.
Decision-making in long-term cocaine users: Effects of a cash monetary contingency on Gambling task performance.
The effects of combination levodopa-ropinirole on cognitive improvement and treatment outcome in individuals with cocaine use disorder: A bayesian mediation analysis.
Cognitive impulsivity in cocaine and heroin polysubstance abusers.
Differences in self-reported decision-making styles in stimulant-dependent and opiate-dependent individuals.
Factors associated with the absence of cocaine craving in treatment-seeking individuals during inpatient cocaine detoxification.
Evaluation of heterogeneity in pharmacotherapy trials for drug dependence: A Bayesian approach.
Computational modelling of reinforcement learning and functional neuroimaging of probabilistic reversal for dissociating compulsive behaviours in gambling and cocaine use disorders.
An insula_driven network computes decision uncertainty and promotes abstinence in chronic cocaine users.


Cluster 4:
Losses as modulators of attention: Review and analysis of the unique effects of losses over gains.
The effects of acute alcohol administration on the human brain: Insights from neuroimaging.
Understanding ethanol's acute effects on medial prefrontal cortex neural activity using state-space approaches.
Hierarchical associations of alcohol use disorder symptoms in late adolescence with markers during early adolescence.
The effects of alcohol on sequential decision-making biases during gambling.
Effects of Alcohol, Initial Gambling Outcomes, Impulsivity, and Gambling Cognitions on Gambling Behavior Using a Video Poker Task.
Pharmacological and Expectancy Effects of a Low Amount of Alcohol Drinking on Outcome Valuation and Risk Perception in Males and Females.
Affective decision-making moderates the effects of automatic associations on alcohol use among drug offenders.
Mechanisms of deliberation during preferential choice: Perspectives from computational modeling and individual differences.
Direct and indirect relationships between Factor 2 psychopathy, behavioral activation, positive alcohol expectancies, and alcohol use.
Moderate alcohol consumption as risk factor for adverse brain outcomes and cognitive decline: longitudinal cohort study.
Individual associations of adolescent alcohol use disorder versus cannabis use disorder symptoms in neural prediction error signaling and the response to novelty.
Aberrant reward prediction errors in young adult at-risk alcohol users.
Binge drinking affects brain oscillations linked to motor inhibition and execution.


Cluster 5:
Metabolic and functional substrates of impulsive decision-making in individuals with heroin addiction after prolonged methadone maintenance treatment.
Characterizing impulsivity in individuals with heroin use disorder.
Analysis of decision-making processes in drug-abusers before and after maintenance treatment with methadone.
The similarities and differences in impulsivity and cognitive ability among ketamine, methadone, and non-drug users.
Risk behavior in opioid-dependent individuals after the administration of a therapeutic dose of methadone.
Effects of methadone maintenance treatment on decision-making processes in heroin-abusers: A cognitive modeling analysis.
Effect of heroin use on changes of brain functions as measured by functional magnetic resonance imaging, a systematic review.


Cluster 6:
Comparison of deck- and trial-based approaches to advantageous decision making on the Iowa Gambling Task.
Exploring decision-making strategies in the Iowa Gambling Task and rat gambling task.
The Simulated Gambling Paradigm Applied to Young Adults: An Examination of University Students' Performance.
The performance of college students on the Iowa Gambling Task: Differences between scoring approaches.
Mirrored Prominent Deck B Phenomenon: Frequent Small Losses Override Infrequent Large Gains in the Inverted Iowa Gambling Task.
A critical review of sex differences in decision-making tasks: Focus on the Iowa Gambling Task.
Effects of working memory load, a history of conduct disorder, and sex on decision making in substance dependent individuals.
Construct validity of the Iowa Gambling Task.
Recollecting cross-cultural evidences: Are decision makers really foresighted in Iowa gambling task?


Cluster 7:
Behavioral and brain response to non-drug rewards in substance abuse: Implications for motivational theories of addiction.
Neural circuits linking sleep and addiction: Animal models to understand why select individuals are more vulnerable to substance use disorders after sleep deprivation.
Blunted reward sensitivity and trait disinhibition interact to predict substance use problems.
Trajectories of Reinforcement Sensitivity During Adolescence and Risk for Substance Use.
Cumulative gains enhance striatal response to reward opportunities in alcohol-dependent patients.
Aberrant decision-making and drug addiction - how strong is the evidence?
Examining the link between reward and response inhibition in individuals with substance abuse tendencies.
Substance use is associated with reduced devaluation sensitivity.
Deficits in behavioural inhibition in substance abuse and addiction: A meta-analysis.
Assessing general versus specific liability for externalizing problems in adolescence: Concurrent and prospective prediction of symptoms of conduct disorder, ADHD, and substance use.


Cluster 8:
The detrimental effects of emotional process dysregulation on decision-making in substance dependence.
Probabilistic reward- and punishment-based learning in opioid addiction: Experimental and computational data.
Drug Addiction and the Memory Systems of the Brain.
Drug addiction and its underlying neurobiological basis: Neuroimaging evidence for the involvement of the frontal cortex.
Dysfunction of the prefrontal cortex in addiction: neuroimaging findings and clinical implications.
Targeting goal-based decision-making for addiction recovery.
Drug Addiction: Updating Actions to Habits to Compulsions Ten Years On.
"Wanting," "liking," and their relation to consciousness.
Age and impulsive behavior in drug addiction: A review of past research and future directions.
Neural and psychological mechanisms underlying compulsive drug seeking habits and drug memories - indications for novel treatments of addiction*.
Structural and functional neuroimaging methods: Applications to substance abuse and addiction.


Cluster 9:
Changes in Loss Sensitivity During Treatment in Concurrent Disorders Inpatients: A Computational Model Approach to Assessing Risky Decision-Making
A computational cognitive model of the Iowa Gambling Task for finely characterizing decision making in methamphetamine users
Decision-making by patients with methamphetamine use disorder receiving contingency management treatment: Magnitude and frequency effects.
Computational models of exploration and exploitation characterise onset and efficacy of treatment in methamphetamine use disorder.
Nonconformist tendencies related to risky choices in female methamphetamine abstainers
Imprecise action selection in substance use disorder: Evidence for active learning impairments when solving the explore-exploit dilemma
Exploration versus exploitation decisions in the human brain: A systematic review of functional neuroimaging and neuropsychological studies.


Cluster 10:
Similar Processes Despite Divergent Behavior in Two Commonly Used Measures of Risky Decision Making
Application of a computational decision model to examine acute drug effects on human risk taking.
Ketamine use among regular tobacco and alcohol users as revealed by respondent-driven sampling in Taipei: Prevalence, expectancy, and users' risky decision making.
Working memory and decision-making biases in young adults with a family history of alcoholism: Studies from the Oklahoma Family Health Patterns Project.
Impaired outcome evaluation during risky decision-making in individuals with methamphetamine use disorder.
Smokers' decision making: More than mere risk taking.
A cognitive modeling analysis of risk in sequential choice tasks.
Altered risk-related processing in substance users: Imbalance of pain and gain.
Similarities between adult female crack cocaine users and adolescents in risky decision-making scenarios.
Propensity for risk taking and trait impulsivity in the Iowa gambling task.


Cluster 11:
Performance on the Iowa Gambling Task: From 5 to 89 Years of Age.
Older Adults as Adaptive Decision Makers: Evidence From the Iowa Gambling Task.
A cultural study on decision making: Performance differences on the Iowa Gambling Task between selected groups of Brazilians and Americans.
The impact of subjective cognitive decline on Iowa Gambling Task performance.


Cluster 12:
Brain atrophy in long-term abstinent alcoholics who demonstrate impairment on a simulated gambling task.
Gray matter abnormalities in opioid-dependent patients: A neuroimaging meta-analysis.
Gray matter volume in left rostral middle frontal and left cerebellar cortices predicts frontal executive performance in alcoholic subjects.
Impaired decision-making and brain shrinkage in alcoholism.


Cluster 13:
Strategic self-regulation, decision-making and emotion processing in poly-substance abusers in their first year of abstinence.
Opposite Effects of Amphetamine Self-administration Experience on Dendritic Spines in the Medial and Orbital Prefrontal Cortex.
Self-regulation and adolescent substance use.
Effectiveness of an Integrated Intervention Program for Alcoholism (IIPA) for enhancing self-regulation: Preliminary evidence.
Self-control and substance use prevention: A translational analysis.


Cluster 14:
Task-level value affects trial-level reward processing.
Poor decision-making by chronic marijuana users is associated with decreased functional responsiveness to negative consequences.
Decisions during negatively-framed messages yield smaller risk-aversion-related brain activation in substance-dependent individuals.
The Iowa Gambling Task in fMRI images.
Temporal profile of fronto-striatal-limbic activity during implicit decisions in drug dependence.


Cluster 15:
Effects of substance use on monetary delay discounting among people who use stimulants with and without HIV: An ecological momentary assessment study.
Computational Modeling Reveals Distinct Effects of HIV and History of Drug Use on Decision-Making Processes in Women
Sex and HIV serostatus differences in decision making under risk among substance-dependent individuals.


Cluster 16:
Machine-learning identifies substance-specific behavioral markers for opiate and stimulant dependence.
Time perception and impulsivity: A proposed relationship in addictive disorders.
Effects of psychopathy on neurocognitive domains of impulsivity in abstinent opiate and stimulant users.
Neurocognitive and psychiatric dimensions of hot, but not cool, impulsivity predict HIV sexual risk behaviors among drug users in protracted abstinence.


Cluster 17:
A Contribution of Cognitive Decision Models to Clinical Assessment: Decomposing Performance on the Bechara Gambling Task.
An afterword: The utility of cognitive models for the field of psychopathology.
Cognitive Models for Evaluating Basic Decision Processes in Clinical Populations.
Using cognitive models to map relations between neuropsychological disorders and human decision-making deficits
Formal models of cognition and behavior.


Cluster 18:
Decision-making in drug-dependent patients.
Smokers' brains compute, but ignore, a fictive error signal in a sequential investment task.
Negative reinforcement learning is affected in substance dependence.
Reduced Neural Tracking of Prediction Error in Substance-Dependent Individuals
Neurocognitive insights into substance abuse.


Cluster 19:
The association between heroin expenditure and dopamine transporter availability-a single-photon emission computed tomography study.
Nicotine-dopamine-transporter interactions during reward-based decision making
From apathy to addiction: Insights from neurology and psychiatry.


Cluster 20:
Different types of criminals' decision-making defects in the Iowa Gambling Task.
Neurocognitive deficits related to poor decision making in people behind bars


Cluster 21:
Emotion, Decision-Making and Substance Dependence: A Somatic-Marker Model of Addiction.
A somatic marker theory of addiction.
The somatic marker hypothesis and its neural basis: Using past experiences to forecast the future in decision making.
Spiking Phineas Gage: A Neurocomputational Theory of Cognitive-Affective Integration in Decision Making.


Cluster 22:
A longitudinal analysis of adolescent decision-making with the Iowa Gambling Task.
The cognitive processes underlying affective decision-making predicting adolescent smoking behaviors in a longitudinal study.
Adolescent brain maturation and smoking: What we know and where we're headed.


Cluster 23:
Neuropsychological functioning in opioid use disorder: A research synthesis and meta-analysis.
Neuropsychological comparisons of cocaine versus methamphetamine users: A research synthesis and meta-analysis.
Decision-making ability in current and past users of opiates: A meta-analysis.


Cluster 24:
Recent research on impulsivity in individuals with drug use and mental health disorders: Implications for alcoholism.
Impaired Decision-Making, Higher Impulsivity, and Drug Severity in Substance Dependence and Pathological Gambling
Decision-making under risk, but not under ambiguity, predicts pathological gambling in discrete types of abstinent substance users.


Cluster 25:
Cued for risk: Evidence for an incentive sensitization framework to explain the interplay between stress and anxiety, substance abuse, and reward uncertainty in disordered gambling behavior.
Anticipatory stress restores decision-making deficits in heavy drinkers by increasing sensitivity to losses.
Competing neurobehavioral decision systems and the neuroeconomics of craving in opioid addiction.
An Acute Psychosocial Stressor Does Not Potentiate Alcohol Cue Reactivity in Non-Treatment-Seeking Alcoholics.


Cluster 26:
Neurocognitive determinants of novelty and sensation-seeking in individuals with alcoholism.
Neuropsychological, impulsive personality, and cerebral oxygenation correlates of undergraduate polysubstance use.


Cluster 27:
Reward-based learning as a function of severity of substance abuse risk in drug-naive youth with ADHD.
Processing of continuously provided punishment and reward in children with ADHD and the modulating effects of stimulant medication: An ERP study.


Cluster 28:
Impulsive decision-making predicts the course of substance-related and addictive disorders.
Differences in decision-making as a function of drug of choice.
Stages of dysfunctional decision-making in addiction.


Cluster 29:
IGT-Open: An open-source, computerized version of the Iowa Gambling Task.
Neural Mechanisms of Human Decision-Making.
Some futures for cognitive modeling and architectures: design patterns for including better interaction with the world, moderators, and improved model to data fits (and so can you).
A computational knowledge-based model for emulating human performance in the Iowa Gambling Task.


Cluster solo:
Toward an understanding of decision making in severe mental illness.
Analysis of evidence in decision-making research between 2002 and 2012.
Searching for the Best Cause: Roles of Mechanism Beliefs, Autocorrelation, and Exploitation.


